PERSONAL HISTORY
Male, 63 years of age, his medical history includes: No known drug reactions. No previous cardiological history or family history of heart disease known to the patient. Ex-smoker of 25 cigarettes a day for 45 years.
Occasional alcohol consumption. No arterial hypertension (AHT), type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) or dyslipidaemia. Tuberculosis in childhood. Benign prostatic hyperplasia. No previous cardiological history. Usual treatment: tamsulosin 0.4 mg.

CURRENT ILLNESS
He was referred to the emergency department by his primary care physician for loss of consciousness while seated, lasting 1-2 minutes, with subsequent complete spontaneous recovery. He reported at least two previous episodes of similar characteristics, both at night, in decubitus position, in the last two weeks.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Temperature 36.7 ̊C; blood pressure (BP) 123/88 mmHg; heart rate (HR) 82 bpm; SpO2 97% (FiO2 0.21). Neurological examination: conscious and oriented, language preserved. Isochoric normoreactive pupils. Normal extrinsic ocular motility. Rest of cranial nerves without alterations. Strength and sensitivity preserved. Coordination normal. Romberg negative. No alterations in gait. No jugular ingurgitation. Cardiac auscultation: regular heart sounds, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur with some isolated wheezing. Abdomen: no masses or megaliths. Peristalsis preserved. No oedema in the lower limbs. Pulses present and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests in the emergency department: Glucose 117 mg/dl. Urea 48 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.78 mg/dl. Sodium 140 mmol/l. Potassium 4.1 mmol/l. Calcium 9.1 mg/dl. Total protein 6,6 g/dl. GPT/ALT 32 U/l. Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) 397 U/l. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 356 U/l. C-reactive protein (CRP) 1.5 mg/l. Leucocytes 9.38 x10^9/l. Neutrophils (Abs) 7,30 x10^9/l. Lymphocytes (Abs) 1.16 x10^9/l. Red blood cells 5.25 x10^12/l. Haemoglobin 16.0 g/dl. Haematocrit 47%. Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) 89 fl. Platelets 208 x10^9/l. Prothrombin time (PT) 13.0 seconds, Quick's Index 100%, INR 1.00. Complete blood test during admission: glucose 103 mg/dl. Urea 43 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.68 mg/dl. Uric acid 5.4 mg/dl. Sodium 140 mmol/l. Potassium 4.1 mmol/litre. Cholesterol 162 mg/dl. Triglycerides 93 mg/dl. HDL cholesterol 45 mg/dl. Calculated LDL cholesterol 108 mg/dl. Magnesium 2,0 mg/dl. Total Bilirubin 0.64 mg/dl. GPT/ALT 28 U/l. GGT 22 U/L Total Alkaline Phosphatase 91 mU/ml. Leucocytes 5.05 x10^9/l. Haemoglobin 17.4 g/dL, Haematocrit 53%, Platelets 233 x10^9/l. CA 125 (carbohydrate antigen 125) 7 U/ml. Glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 5.1%. NT-proBNP (natriuretic propeptide B) 9 pg/mL.
ECG: sinus rhythm at 80 bpm. Normal PR. QRS 160 ms with morphology similar to complete right bundle branch block of the right bundle branch of the His (BCRDHH) in V1 with end-force QRS filling and elevation of the J point in this lead. Chest X-ray: cardiac silhouette and mediastinum of normal size. No areas of consolidation or pleural effusion.
Transthoracic echocardiography: left ventricle of normal diameter and thickness with adequate contractility, without segmental alterations. Transmitral flow pattern of prolonged relaxation. Left atrium of normal dimensions. Fine leaflet mitral valve with normal opening, without regurgitation. Tricommissural aortic valve with normal opening, without regurgitation. Right chambers of normal dimensions with no evidence of PHT.
Brain CT scan: mild corticosubcortical atrophy with ventricular enlargement already described in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in 2015. Centred midline. No signs of acute bleeding or oedema. Calota without alterations. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) (video 1): left ventricle with wall thickness, volumes (IVTDVI 59 ml/m2; IVTSVI 21 ml/m2) and segmental and global systolic function within normal (LVEF 65%). Right ventricle volume (IVTDVD 68 ml/m2; IVTSVD 28 ml/m2) and systolic function preserved (RVEF 58%). Free wall morphology and preserved segmental contractility. Atria and great vessels of preserved dimensions. First-pass perfusion at rest (gadoteric acid iv 0.15 mmol/kg, without complications) normal. Absence of myocardial fibrosis or necrosis. Morphological (without and with contrast) and functional study within normality. Electrophysiological study: under local anaesthesia and under fluoroscopic control, three quadripolar electrocatheters are introduced via the right femoral vein and placed alternately in the descending artery (DA), AV zone and RV for recording and stimulation. The procedure is performed without complications. Basically the conduction intervals are AV: LC 704 ms, AH 95 ms, HV: 44 ms. The nodal Wenckebach point was obtained at 190 bpm. No VA conduction is observed above 100 bpm. Programmed atrial pacing (increasing rates and extrastimulus test with two cycles and up to three ES) did not induce significant arrhythmias. Right and left carotid sinus massage (CSM) did not induce significant block or pauses, nor significant fall in blood pressure (BP). Procainamide perfusion (10 mg/kg) over 10 min did not induce significant lengthening of the HV interval. Implantable Holter: episode of asystole preceded by polymorphic ventricular tachycardia triggered by ventricular extrasystole with T-wave coupling.
Coronary angiography: no significant angiographic lesions were observed. Flecainide test: administration of 2 mg/kg iv flecainide produces an increase in J-point elevation of 2 to 4 mV without exhibiting typical Brugada type 1 pattern, so it cannot be considered positive. Genetic testing for sudden death: no clinically relevant variants have been identified.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
As this was a 63-year-old patient with repeated syncope suggestive of cardiogenic origin, it was decided to admit him to the cardiology department to complete the stiological study. Cardiac imaging studies were performed with transthoracic echocardiography and CMR, which showed no structural alterations. During her hospital stay she did not present arrhythmic events on continuous monitoring. A cranial CT scan was performed, which showed no significant alterations. In addition, as she presented complete right bundle branch block (image 1), it was decided to complete the aetiological study with an electrophysiological study and carotid sinus massage, which did not prove the cause of the syncope. Finally, given the high suspicion of cardiogenic origin, it was decided to implant a subcutaneous Holter (Reveal®) for continuous ambulatory monitoring. During review of the monitoring alerts, a tracing was detected. The patient was notified to interrogate the subcutaneous Holter (Reveal®), which revealed an episode of ventricular fibrillation and subsequent asystole triggered by ventricular extrasystole with T-wave coupling. The patient reported that he had suffered a syncopal episode of identical characteristics to the previous ones. Given the morphology of the QRS in the baseline ECG, a flecainide test was performed with an increase in the J point in V1 and V2 without exhibiting a typical Brugada pattern. Following the indications of the clinical practice guidelines on sudden death and ventricular tachycardia, coronary angiography was requested, which showed no significant lesions. Genetic testing was requested for the study of sudden death without structural heart disease, including the genes most frequently associated with Brugada syndrome and catecholaminergic ventricular tachycardia, but no clinically relevant variants were identified. In view of the repeated syncope and the finding of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation, implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) implantation was decided for secondary prevention. Subsequently, during follow-up in outpatient clinics, on performing a detailed and directed family tree, it was found that the paternal grandfather had sudden death at the age of 56 and that one of his paternal uncles had been diagnosed with Brugada syndrome after sudden death had been recovered (with negative genetics, but with a type 1 pattern).

DIAGNOSIS
Repeated cardiogenic syncope in the context of ventricular fibrillation due to probable Brugada syndrome. ICD implantation for secondary prevention.
