HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Smoker of 3 cigarettes a day. Severe mitral regurgitation secondary to chordal rupture pending surgery. Pre-anaesthetic assessment performed, with last transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), transesophageal echocardiography (TTE) and pre-surgical coronary angiography without epicardial lesions the month prior to the episode. Inguinal hernia surgery. No chronic treatment.

Present illness
50-year-old male brought to hospital emergency department by SAMU after recovered cardiorespiratory arrest. The patient presented at rest while watching television with an episode of loss of consciousness without previous symptoms, at which point his relative called 112 and started basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). On arrival of the SAMU, they observed cardiorespiratory arrest and began advanced CPR manoeuvres (laryngeal mask + mechanical ventilation), observing as the first rhythm ventricular fibrillation (VF), for which 5 shocks were administered, 450 mg of amiodarone and 3 mg of adrenaline, recovering sinus rhythm. On arrival at the emergency department, a laryngeal mask was replaced by an endotracheal tube. The patient was sedoanalgesiated and well adapted to mechanical ventilation, haemodynamically stable without vasopressor or inotropic drugs.

Physical examination
Blood pressure (BP) 127/91 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 93 bpm, oxygen saturation 96% (IMV with FIO2 100%). Cardiac auscultation: regular heart sounds, predominant systolic murmur in EIB.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, crackles in the bases. Abdomen: soft and depressible, no pain on palpation. No masses or megaliths. No oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis in the lower limbs. Pulses present, bilateral and symmetrical. Neurological: no sounds, no response to pain, medium photoreactive pupils.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram (ECG) on arrival at the critical care unit: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm, isolated ventricular extrasystoles, PR 160ms. Narrow QRS with normal axis, without repolarisation alterations. ECG during monitoring: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm, normal PR, frequent polytopic ventricular extrasystoles, narrow QRS with normal axis, signs of LVH, no significant repolarisation abnormalities. Blood tests on arrival at the critical care unit: haemoglobin 17 g/dl, MCV 96.3 fl. Leukocytes 18100 (Ne 13300, Li 3800). PLT 235,000. D-dimer 11538 μg/ml. IQ 100%. Na+ 137mmEq/l, K 4mmEq/l, Ur 36 mg/dl, creatinine 1.15 mg/dl, calcium 8.8 mg/dl, protein 6.6 g/dl, CRP 0.1 mg/dl, GPT 186 U/l, amylase 173 U/l. Arterial blood gases on arrival (FiO2 50%): pH 7.16, pCO2 58 mmHg, pO2 113 mmHg, HCO3 20.7 mEq/l, Sat O2 98.8%, lactate 5.6 mmol/l. Arterial blood gas one hour after arrival: pH 7.24, pCO2 50 mmHg, pO2 131 mmHg, HCO3 21.4 mEq/l, Sat O2 99.3%, lactate 3 mmol/l. PCR SARS VOC 2 on arrival: negative. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain: size of the ventricular system within the normal range, without significant dilatation of sulci, identifying no intracranial haematic collections, space-occupying lesions, fracture traces or alterations suggesting the presence of areas of acute ischaemia. Midline elements are centred. Pulmonary CT: bibasal condensation due to probable aspiration during orotracheal intubation (OTI). Minimal undisplaced fractures of the 4th and 5th right anterior costal arches. Distended stomach. Chest X-ray: portable study with little inspiration, signs of vascular redistribution without showing infiltrates or pleural effusion. TTE and TEE: mitral valve with eversion of the posterior leaflet at P2 (flail) due to chordal rupture. Two divergent regurgitant jets of globally severe regurgitation (ORE by PISA 0.5 cm2, vena contracta 6-7 mm, regurgitant volume 96 ml). Left ventricle (LV) of greatly increased diameters and volumes with mildly depressed systolic function (LVEF 45-50%). Absence of other significant valvulopathies. Very dilated left atrium. Right ventricle with normal diameters and systolic function preserved in limits. No signs of pulmonary hypertension (PAPS 30-35 mmHg). Inferior vena cava not dilated.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was transferred to the coronary unit (UCO). Cerebral and pulmonary CT was performed to rule out cerebrovascular accident (CVA), pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) or acute aortic syndrome. Given the CT findings, empirical antibiotic therapy was started. A few hours later, he was extubated, with good clinical evolution and remained stable in haemodynamic and respiratory terms. No neurological involvement was identified as a sequelae of the arrest. The control chest X-ray showed disappearance of the alveolar infiltrates. Ten days later, the cardiac surgery team operated to repair the mitral valve, placing a mitral ring and 4 neo-strings. During surgery, extensive prolapse of P2, chordal rupture and cleft between P1-P2 were observed. Postoperative TEE was performed and showed no residual mitral regurgitation (MR) after repair. After the operation, he remained in the OCU, presenting several episodes of atrial fibrillation (AF) that led to haemodynamic instability and were controlled by electrical cardioversion (ECV) and intravenous amiodarone perfusion. After reaching stability, a single-chamber implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) was implanted for secondary prevention. The patient was subsequently discharged. He has continued to undergo check-ups at the clinic, remaining in NYHA functional class I and with no new arrhythmic events.

DIAGNOSIS
Malignant mitral valve prolapse (complicated with recovered CRP).
Severe mitral insufficiency due to P2 prolapse due to chordal rupture, surgically repaired.
