HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
49-year-old male patient with the following personal history: No known adverse drug reactions. Cardiovascular risk factors: arterial hypertension of 13 years of evolution, initially untreated and which, in recent years, has had treatment with irregular adherence to it; dyslipidaemia of 8 years of evolution, in treatment with oral lipid-lowering drugs, but also with irregular adherence to it. Toxic habits: active smoker of more than 15 cigarettes a day (IPA of 35 packs/year), alcoholism with a regular consumption of around 1 litre of beer a day since adolescence, occasional cocaine user.   Cardiological history: Chronic coronary syndrome, with debut in 2012 in the form of acute myocardial infarction without ST-segment elevation (NSTEMI). During this admission, monovalvular coronary artery disease of the proximal anterior descending artery was detected, which was revascularised with the implantation of 1 drug-eluting stent. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was preserved at discharge. New admission in 2017 for NSTEMI, caused by thrombosis at the level of the proximal ostial circumflex artery without total obstruction and treated with abciximab perfusion initially and subsequently with balloon PCI. Left ventricular systolic function preserved. Abandoned follow-up in cardiology outpatient clinic.   Usual treatment: acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg (1 tablet every 24 h), omeprazole 20 mg (1 tablet every 24 h), telmisartan 40 mg (1 tablet every 24 h), lorazepam 1 mg (1 tablet every 12 h), bisoprolol 2.5 mg (1 tablet every 24 h), atorvastatin 80 mg (1 tablet every 24 h), fenofibrate 145 mg (1 tablet every 24 h).   Present illness The patient, with the history described above, presents with chest pain at home, unrelated to exertion. He describes the pain as central thoracic, oppressive, radiating to the neck and left upper limb, similar to the two previous heart attacks and accompanied by vegetative symptoms in the form of profuse sweating and nausea. Initially, he decided to take one tablet of lorazepam and, as his symptoms worsened, he decided to take two tablets of sublingual caffeine, which he vomited immediately. The family then called the emergency services. On arrival of the emergency team, the patient was symptomatic, with chest pain and significant impairment of the general condition, conscious, oriented and cooperative, with the following physical examination: Vitals: systolic blood pressure of 95/54 mmHg; heart rate of around 100 bpm, saturating at 96% without oxygen supply. Skin pallor, acral coldness, weak peripheral pulses. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic tones, tachycardic, no audible murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: bilateral vesicular murmur preserved, with crackles in the bases. Lower limbs: no oedema. An electrocardiogram (ECG) was then performed, showing ST segment elevation (images 1 and 2), so it was decided to administer a loading dose of ASA (300 mg), ticagrelor (180 mg), and emergency cardiology was contacted pre-hospital for transfer to our hospital.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Emergency ECG: sinus rhythm at 90 bpm, normal PR, ST segment elevation in DII, DIII, AVF (up to 7 mm) and in V4-6, with specular decrease in V1-2, aVL. Initial coronary angiography (video 1): Left main coronary artery: No stenosis. Recurrence of very late thrombosis of the stent implanted in the ostial anterior descending artery, a phenomenon that in this case affects the distal left main coronary artery (both anterior descending and circumflex), but maintaining TIMI 3 epicardial flow in both branches. Anterior descending: permeable ostial-proximal ostial stent, not restenotic, with presence of ostial thrombus. Rest of the vessel without de novo lesions. Occlusion by embolisation of the anterior descending artery at the terminal (apical) level. Circumflex: co-dominant, without lesions, with presence of ostial-proximal thrombus, as previously detailed. Occlusion by embolus of the distal posterior descending artery of the circumflex. Right coronary artery: codominant, without lesions. Post-catheterisation ECG on admission to the coronary unit (image 3): sinus rhythm with narrow QRS, normalisation of the ST segment, Q wave of 1 mm in DII, DIII, aVF, V5-6.

Admission blood tests: haemogram: red series with Hb 15.7 g/dl and haematocrit 45.8%. White series with leukocytosis of 17,760 cells/mm3 and neutrophilia of 15,590 cells/mm3. Platelets 261,000 cells/mm3. Blood glucose: 74 mg/dl. Renal function: creatinine 1.04 mg/dl and urea 33 mg/dl. Ions within normal range. CRP 0.6 mg/l. Myocardial damage markers: CPK 365 - 1283 - 2487 - 731 - 203 - 142 - 83 - 87 U/l. Ultra-sensitive troponin T: 11 - 904 - 2166 - 871 - 1484 - 1069 - 1429 - 10 - 5 ng/l. GSV: pH 7.25; pCO2 40.4 mmHg; lactic acid 7.4 mmol/l; HCO3- 17.7 mmol/l. HbA1c: 5.6%. Lipid profile: total cholesterol 103 mg/dl; triglycerides 92 mg/dl; HDL cholesterol 60 mg/dl; LDL cholesterol 25 mg/dl. Urinalysis with toxins: positive for cocaine and benzodiazepines. Echocardiography in the ED: left ventricle of globular appearance, with preserved LVEF, no segmental contractility disorders can be seen due to poor endocardial visualisation. Right ventricle of normal size and preserved systolic function. No significant valvulopathies. No pericardial effusion. Vena cava of normal size and with adequate inspiratory collapse. Control coronary angiography at 7 days: resolution of the stent thrombosis generated in the ostial anterior descending artery, described in the previous angiography, was confirmed. Doppler ultrasound of the left groin: hypoechogenic image is seen in the perivascular soft tissues, adjacent to the superficial femoral artery, with no flow inside, compatible with changes secondary to puncture, probably haematic infiltration. No significant post-puncture haematoma is evident. All the vessels studied appear permeable and with normal flow morphology. There were no images suggesting additional complications: arteriovenous fistula or pseudoaneurysm. ECG at hospital discharge: sinus rhythm at 65 bpm. Constant PR of 100 ms. Narrow QRS of 80 ms. Negative T waves in II, III, aVF and V4-6. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) at discharge: non-dilated left ventricle, with slight concentric hypertrophy of walls (13 mm of septum and 13 mm of posterior wall), with preserved left ventricular systolic function (57%), without segmental contractility disorders. Right ventricle not dilated and normofunctioning. Atria of normal dimensions. Normal aortic root. Absence of organic valvular pathology. No pericardial effusion. Inferior vena cava not dilated with adequate inspiratory collapse. The Doppler study showed normal anterograde valvular flows, with no significant valvular insufficiencies. Blood tests at discharge: Normal haemogram of the 3 series. Coagulation normal. Biochemistry: glycaemia, renal function and ions normal. Markers of myocardial damage: CPK 87 U/l and TnT 5 ng/l. CRP 1.2 mg/l. GSV: pH 7.37; pCO2 50.5 mmHg; HCO3 28.6 mmol/l; lactic 2.1 mmol/l.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On arrival at the hospital emergency department, the patient was found to be in a very poor general state, hypotensive and with a low level of consciousness, which made it necessary to initiate aminergic support (noradrenaline) with a view to performing primary angioplasty in which thrombosis was observed in the area of the ostium of the anterior descending trunk and trunk-circumflex. As in the NSTEACS of 2017, initial pharmacological management was chosen in order to reduce the thrombotic burden prior to any interventional procedure. Thus, an intracoronary bolus of abciximab was administered and intravenous perfusion was left in place. After starting this treatment, haemodynamic improvement and recovery of the level of consciousness was observed, and the patient was transferred to the coronary unit for continued monitoring and follow-up. The case was presented at a medical-surgical session and it was decided to repeat the coronary angiography after 7 days, depending on the results of the coronary angiography, medical treatment, percutaneous revascularisation or surgery could be considered depending on the findings. During his stay, initially in the coronary unit and subsequently in the cardiology ward, the patient evolved favourably in clinical and haemodynamic terms, with no congestive signs, no arrhythmic events, no recurrence of chest pain and with preserved LVEF without complications in the control TTE. On re-history, the patient reported that in the previous weeks he had increased his alcohol and tobacco consumption, and that he had used cocaine again on several occasions, the last dose the day before the event. A repeat coronary angiography was performed 7 days later, in this case via the femoral artery, and resolution of the thrombus was observed. In view of this situation, it was decided not to perform any more invasive procedures on this patient and, after an adequate evolution on the hospital ward, it was decided to discharge the patient with recommendations, leaving him on a double anti-aggregation treatment with ASA and ticagrelor. Prior to discharge, the patient presented a painful tumour in the inguinal region, coinciding with the puncture site for coronary angiography via the femoral artery, which made it necessary to perform a Doppler ultrasound to rule out complications of the procedure. After performing the ultrasound and ruling out these complications, the patient was discharged from the hospital. Emphasis was placed on the importance of abandoning the consumption of toxic substances and the importance of therapeutic compliance. He was transferred to the cardiac rehabilitation unit on discharge, where these recommendations were insisted on, as well as diet and physical exercise. After follow-up, he was discharged with subsequent review in outpatient cardiology consultations. At the present time, and more than 1 year after the acute event, the patient has completely abandoned the consumption of toxic substances and has not presented any further coronary events. Given his history, it was also decided to prolong the double antiplatelet therapy, and the patient is currently on ticagrelor 60 mg every 12 hours.

DIAGNOSIS
Inferolateral KK IV STEACS.
Late stent thrombosis in ostial anterior descending artery affecting the left common trunk and the ostium of the circumflex artery with TIMI 3 flow but with distal embolisation with occlusion of distal anterior descending and distal posterior descending arteries.
Pharmacological treatment with intracoronary abciximab and later triple antiplatelet therapy with intravenous abciximab and ASA + ticagrelor orally.
Global preserved LVEF with no mechanical complications or valvular heart disease.
Cocaine use as a precipitating factor.
Active smoking and alcoholism.
