HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
A 71-year-old woman, with no toxic habits or cardiovascular risk factors and with a personal history of aortic sclerosis, hypertensive heart disease, recurrent paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and renal lithiasis, attended the emergency department for oppressive central thoracic pain, not radiating or associated with vegetative cortex, which did not change with palpation, deep inspiration or movement, lasting about 3 hours. He denied orthopnoea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea, palpitations, dyspnoea at rest/exertion, malleolar oedema or reduced diuresis. He had not made any dietary transgressions or modified his usual medication. As a point of interest, she commented that she had gone to the dentist hours earlier having undergone a root canal.
On arrival at the emergency department the patient was stable, normotensive (124/74 mmHg), with heart rate (78 bpm) and oxygen saturation (98% baseline) normal.
Afebrile. Conscious and oriented, good general condition, eupneic at rest, normohydrated, normo-coloured and normoperfused. Carotid pulses were rhythmic and symmetrical and we did not detect jugular ingurgitation. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was rhythmic and without murmurs, with subcrepitant rales from middle and lower lung fields. Abdominal examination revealed a soft and depressible abdomen, no pain on superficial or deep palpation, no masses or megaliths, generalised tympanism, no peritonism and positive hydro-aerial sounds. The lower extremities showed no malleolar oedema; pedial and posterior tibial pulses were present and symmetrical, with no stigmata of venous insufficiency or deep vein thrombosis. No skin rash was observed.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood analysis: haemoglobin 12.9 g/dl, hcto 38.7%, MCH 26 pg, MCV 78.2 fl, leukocytes 13300/microlitre, platelets 200000/microlitre, normal biochemistry, CPK 1127 IU/l peak (30 - 200 IU/l), CK-MB 119.11 ng/ml peak (< 6 ng/ml) and troponin-I 29.130 ng/ml peak (< 0.06), normal renal function, normal ions and normal coagulation.
Anteroposterior chest X-ray (portable): preserved cardiothoracic index, vascular redistribution with bilateral bronchovascular enhancement and bilateral and diffuse interstitial infiltrates
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 60 bpm, PR 180 msec, narrow QRS, QRS axis at 30o, ST-segment elevation in II, III, AVF, V3-V6. QTc 394 msec.
Catheterisation: right dominance. Right coronary artery of good calibre and development, without lesions. Anterior descending artery of good calibre, with very distal thrombotic occlusion, this being a very long vessel, which appears to go around the apex. Circumflex artery of intermediate calibre and good development, without lesions.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophied, with apical akinesia, diastolic pattern of impaired relaxation and preserved systolic function (LVEF 55% by Simpson biplane). Right and left atrium of normal size. Right ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophied, with normal systolic function (TAPSE >18 mm). Mitral valve of normal morphology, with good opening and no regurgitant jets. Aortic valve of trivalve morphology, with restriction of its opening in the range of moderate stenosis (GP 53 mmHg) and regurgitant jet that conditioned mild aortic insufficiency (AIo), without apparent dilatation of the aortic root. Morphologically normal tricuspid valve, with good opening and mild insufficiency, did not allow adequate estimation of pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PSAP) (although there were no indirect signs of pulmonary hypertension [PHT]). Pericardium of normal thickness and refractoriness, without effusion, and non-dilated inferior vena cava, with collapse > 50% with inspiration
Cardio-MRI with gadolinium: apical anteroseptal akinesia with subendocardial uptake greater than 50% at the apical and strict apical anteroseptal level, and less than 50% in the basal anterolateral region. Rest of the study without alterations.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
A loading dose of double antiplatelet therapy was administered and antianginal medical treatment was started. Given the persistence of the clinical and electrocardiographic findings, an urgent catheterisation was performed, which showed thrombotic occlusion of the anterior descending artery at a very distal level, this being a very long vessel, which probably went around the apex. Ventriculography showed anterior-apical and inferior-apical hypokinesia.
Neither thromboaspiration nor coronary angioplasty was performed due to the distal location of the thrombus and he was treated with double antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation. He was then transferred to the coronary unit, where enzymatic and electrocardiographic serialisation was completed. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed a non-dilated and non-hypertrophied left ventricle with septoapical akinesia, diastolic pattern of impaired relaxation and preserved systolic function (LVEF 55% by Simpson biplane). Right and left atrium of normal size. Right ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophied, with normal systolic function (TAPSE > 18 mm). Mitral valve of normal morphology, with good opening and no regurgitant jets. Aortic valve of trivalve morphology, with restriction of its opening in the range of moderate stenosis (GP 53 mmHg) and regurgitant jet that conditioned mild AoI, without apparent dilatation of the aortic root. Morphologically normal tricuspid valve, with good opening and mild insufficiency, did not allow adequate estimation of PSAP (although there were no indirect signs of PHT). Pericardium of normal thickness and refractoriness, without effusion, and non-dilated inferior vena cava, with collapse > 50% with inspiration.
During his stay in the unit he remained cardiologically stable, with blood pressure figures with a tendency to hypotension and afebrile. She did not present new episodes of angina at rest/light exertion, palpitations or dyspnoea. Given the clinical and haemodynamic stability, the patient was discharged to the cardiology ward. Prior to discharge, the patient provided the report of the dental extraction performed a few hours before the onset of the symptoms, in a private centre, which included the use of a local anaesthetic consisting of lidocaine 2% (36 mg) + epinephrine (0.0225 mg). Subsequently, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium was performed, which revealed apical anteroseptal akinesia with subendocardial uptake greater than 50% at the apical and strict apical anteroseptal level, and less than 50% in the basal anterolateral region, all compatible with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) as a first possibility.
Thus, the patient was discharged with hygienic-dietary recommendations, double antiplatelet therapy, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and statins. One year later, the patient remains clinically asymptomatic, with no alterations in segmental contractility by echocardiography.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) apical Killip I.
Thrombotic occlusion of the very distal anterior descending artery (AD). Rest of the coronary tree without lesions.
Apical akinesia. Preserved LVEF.
