PERSONAL HISTORY
Female patient aged 88 years. No known allergic reactions to medication. Cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension, dyslipidaemia. No cardiological history of interest. Peripheral arteriopathy with significant atheromatosis of the left superficial femoral artery documented by angiography four years earlier, under medical treatment. Polyarthrosis under follow-up by rheumatology. Surgical intervention for appendicitis at the age of 25. Usual treatment: acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg every 24 hours, clopidogrel 75 mg every 24 hours, enalapril 20 mg every 24 hours, doxazosin 4 mg every 24 hours, simvastatin 10 mg every 24 hours, pantoprazole 20 mg every 24 hours.

CURRENT ILLNESS
The patient came to the emergency department with chest pain in the retrosternal region that appeared at rest and was described as severe. This picture lasts approximately 20 minutes and subsides spontaneously. She describes associated vegetative cramps. In the last two months, the patient reported frequent episodes of epigastric discomfort, with irradiation to the precordium and left upper limb, which occurred with the exertion of her household chores.  

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Temperature 36.2 ̊C, blood pressure 150/52 mmHg, heart rate 59 beats per minute, oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry 93% at baseline, no signs of tachypnoea at rest. Neurological examination was unaltered.
Cardiac auscultation was rhythmic, without murmurs, pulmonary auscultation with generalised hypophonesis. The abdominal examination showed no palpable organomegaly, negative hepatojugular reflux and no signs of ascites. The lower limbs showed signs of chronic venous insufficiency.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Analytical parameters during his admission to cardiology: leukocytes 7.5 mil/ml, haemoglobin 13.3 g/dl; platelets 299 mil/l; No coagulation alterations; basal glucose 81 mg/dl, glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 5.6%, urea 58 mg/dl; creatinine 1.03 mg/dl; estimated glomerular filtration rate (MDRD-4) 56 ml/min/1.73 m2, total bilirubin 0.4 mg/dl, GOT 19 IU/l, GPT 13 IU/l, CPK 64 IU/l, Ions in normal range. Seriation of biomarkers: troponin I peak 0.228 ng/ml (normal range: less than 0.06 ng/ml), CKMB 3.7 ng/ml (normal range: less than 6 ng/ml), CPK 111 IU/l (normal range: 30-200 IU/l). Laboratory parameters during his admission to internal medicine: leukocytes 12.3 mil/ml, haemoglobin 11.3 g/dl, platelets 336 mil/l. No coagulation alterations. Basal glucose 90 mg/dl, urea 55 mg/dl. Creatinine 1.15 mg/dl, estimated glomerular filtration rate (MDRD-4) 44 ml/min/1.73 m2. Total bilirubin 2.7 mg/dl, direct bilirubin 1.9 mg/dl, GOT 940 IU/l, GPT 660 IU/l, GGT 2711 IU/l, CPK 5074 IU/l, Ions in normal range. Immunoglobulins and complement without significant alterations. Proteinogram: albumin 3.16 g/dl with no other significant alterations. Negativity in the study for: anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA), anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA), anti-smooth muscle antibodies (AML) and anti-LKM-1 antibodies. Emergency resting electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 77 bpm. PR of 145 ms with atrioventricular conduction 1:1. Narrow QRS with normal axis. Inframilimetric ST-segment depression from V4 to V6. QTc interval of 444 ms. Abdominal ultrasound: liver of normal morphology and echogenicity with no evidence of lesions inside. Abdominal-pelvic CT scan: no space-occupying lesions were seen in the blood parenchyma, which had a normal morphology. There is no evidence of retroperitoneal pathology. Kidneys with cortical notches of normal size and morphology. The rest of the examination showed no significant tomographic findings.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was admitted to the cardiology department with a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction without ST-segment elevation, with an intermediate risk profile. Preferential coronary angiography was performed with implantation of a drug-eluting stent in the right ostial coronary artery, which presented a critical ostial lesion, with no other angiographically significant lesions. Transthoracic echocardiography was performed on admission with no notable alterations. The patient, who was already on double antiplatelet therapy, was discharged after an admission without notable complications, adding bisoprolol 2.5 mg daily to her usual treatment and replacing the previous lipid-lowering treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg. At this time the patient's LDL cholesterol level was 98 mg/dl. After a period of one month of home treatment, the patient visited her primary care physician for lumbar pain radiating to the right abdomen and the physician performed a blood test showing hypertransaminasemia with GOT levels of 677 IU/l and GPT of 701 IU/l, referring the patient to the emergency department. The patient was readmitted to the emergency department, where she reported asthenia, weakness predominantly in the shoulder girdle, and a repeat laboratory test was performed, expanding the parameters (see section on complementary tests). The patient was admitted to the internal medicine department for hypertransaminasemia under study, rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure with a pre-renal profile. During her admission to internal medicine, an ultrasound scan of the abdomen and abdominal CT scan were performed (see section on complementary tests) to assess retroperitoneal pathology. Finally, she was diagnosed with toxic hepatitis and rhabdomyolysis related to statins. The patient progressed favourably during her admission and was discharged with ezetimibe 10 mg every 24 hours. To date, the patient has continued her check-ups in cardiology consultations with no new notable events and her LDL cholesterol levels are 105 mg/dl, with transaminase and creatine phosphokinase levels within the normal range.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute myocardial infarction without ST-segment elevation.
Toxic hepatitis and rhabdomyolysis related to treatment with statins.
