HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
No known drug allergies. Ex-smoker for 15 years. Obesity. Arterial hypertension under pharmacological treatment, with recent modification of treatment. Recently diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus (< 10 months), on treatment with oral antidiabetics. No other medical or surgical history of interest. Family history: father died of lung cancer > 60 years, mother with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) > 60 years. Brother died at 25 years of age of unknown cause. Home treatment: amlodipine 10 mg (0-1-0), olmesartan medoxomil 20 mg (1-0-0), metformin 1000 mg - empagliflozin 5 mg (1-0-1).

Current disease
A 45-year-old male patient, with no history of heart disease, attended the emergency department in the early hours of the morning due to deterioration of his functional class with progressive dyspnoea on minimal exertion, associated with episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea in the previous two days, as well as oedematisation of the lower limbs. In addition, he reported an episode of epigastralgia two weeks earlier for which he had been seen in the emergency department and was discharged home with a diagnosis of suspected biliary colic. No infectious symptoms in the previous days or other associated symptoms, afebrile. After initial assessment in the emergency department, the patient was found to be stable although tending towards hypertension, oligosymptomatic and unable to tolerate decubitus, and an electrocardiogram was performed showing sinus tachycardia and electrical alternation. A chest X-ray was requested, showing a large cardiomegaly, with no other relevant pathological findings.
Given the suspicion of pericardial effusion, portable echocardiocopy was performed (video 1), confirming the diagnosis of severe circumferential pericardial effusion (> 20 mm), with collapse of the right chambers. Given the initial haemodynamic stability of the patient, it was decided to admit him to cardiology with close monitoring and serum therapy, with a view to performing a fluoroscopy-guided pericardiocentesis first thing the following morning. However, 2 hours later, the patient was again notified due to clinical and haemodynamic deterioration, with arterial hypotension and tachypnoea, so we proceeded to perform emergent pericardiocentesis guided by echocardiography using a subxiphoid approach, achieving drainage of 1,500 ml of haematic pericardial fluid, collecting samples for aetiological diagnosis, with immediate haemodynamic recovery of the patient. After ultrasound verification of the practical resolution of the effusion, continuous drainage is left in the bag and the patient is continuously monitored.

Physical examination
Good general condition, conscious, oriented in the three spheres, normal colour and normal depth, no jugular venous engorgement. Hypertension 150/90 mmHg, normocardic, eupneic on room air with no increase in work of breathing, but not tolerating decubitus, maintaining basal oxygen saturation of 98%, afebrile. Cardiopulmonary auscultation: low-pitched rhythmic heart sounds, no murmurs. Bladder murmur was preserved, with no additional pathological sounds. Abdomen globular, soft and depressible, not painful on superficial or deep palpation. Lower extremities with oedema and fovea up to the knees.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC: haemoglobin 11 g/dl, MCV 81 fl, MCH 27 pg, leukocytes 13,8000/μl, neutrophils 79%, lymphocytes 11%, platelets 428.000/μl, glucose 221 mg/dl, creatinine 1.56 mg/dl, GFR CKD-EPI 53 ml/min/1.73 m2 , CRP 4.25 mg/dl, procalcitonin 0.21 ng/ml, ultrasensitive troponin I 3.1 pg/ml, CK-MB 1.20 ng/ml, NT-proBNP 231 pg/ml, glycosylated haemoglobin 9%, TSH 1.870 mIU/l. Electrocardiogram: sinus tachycardia at 100 bpm, normal PR, normal axis, narrow QRS, little R progression in precordials, generalised negative T waves, electrical alternans. Chest X-ray: significant cardiomegaly, without alterations of the lung parenchyma. Portable echocardioscopy: left ventricle (LV) with moderate-severe concentric hypertrophy, preserved LV function, severe pericardial effusion > 20 mm circumferential, with swinging heart. Collapsed right chambers. Transthoracic echocardiogram after pericardiocentesis: moderate concentric LV hypertrophy with septal predominance, without LV outflow tract obstruction. LVEF 65%. Moderate pericardial effusion (15 mm) in posterior face in PEEL and 5 mm in anterior face, no respiratory variation of mitral flow, no echographic data of tamponade. No valvulopathies. Analysis of the fluid: haematic aspect, cellularity not assessable due to the presence of clots, glucose 187 mg/dl, protein 5.3 g/dl, pH 7.25, Gram stain with no microorganisms observed, negative bacteriological culture. Samples could not be sent for mycobacteria or cytology.
Tumour markers, autoimmunity, serology: CA 125 451 U/ml, rest negative. Autoimmunity negative, non-specific elevation of complement C3 and C4. Serology hepatotropic viruses, CMV, Treponema pallidum and Coxiella burnetii negative. EBV IgG positive. Chest-abdomen-pelvis CT scan: no radiological signs suggestive of neoproliferative process. Severe pericardial effusion and mild left pleural effusion, slightly heterogeneous nodule in the right thyroid lobe (16 mm maximum diameter with fine calcifications inside), left renal angiomyolipoma, enlarged prostate with stigmata of chronic prostatitis. Echocardiogram at discharge: moderate concentric LV hypertrophy. LVEF 68%. Mild pericardial effusion, mostly posterior, 10 mm, minimal in the left ventricle (LV). Visceral pericardial thickening in the apex. No cavity involvement. No valvular heart disease.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During his admission to the ward the patient presented very good clinical evolution, with better control of blood pressure after pharmacological adjustment, with sinus tachycardia as the only event recorded on telemetry, asymptomatic from the cardiorespiratory point of view, minimal pericardial friction on auscultation. A regulated transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, showing moderate concentric LV hypertrophy, preserved left ventricular function and moderate pericardial effusion (15 mm) in the posterior face in PEEL, and 5 mm in the anterior face, with no evidence of tamponade. After more than 30 hours without debit, drainage was removed. Empirical treatment was started with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and colchicine, and a referral was made to internal medicine for an overall assessment of the case in order to search for the underlying aetiology, with the initial objective of ruling out paraneoplastic pathology. The characteristics of the pericardial fluid were very unspecific: haematic with abundant clots that did not allow cellularity, proteins and glucose within normal limits and negative bacteriological culture, although it was not possible to send a new valid sample for mycobacterial studies. With regard to the analytical study with determination of tumour markers and autoimmunity, he only presented non-specific elevation of CA 125 and complement fractions C3 and C4. Serology for hepatotropic viruses, HIV, CMV, Treponema pallidum and Coxiella burnetii was negative, IgG positive for EBV. As part of the extension study, a CT scan of the thorax-abdomen-pelvis was performed which ruled out a neoproliferative process, highlighting a nodule in the right lower thyroid lobe and an enlarged prostate with stigmata of chronic prostatitis. Serial echocardiographic controls were performed, presenting progressive reduction of the effusion, leaving only a slight pericardial effusion of 10 mm on the posterior and lateral wall of the LV at discharge. Finally, given the favourable clinical and effusion evolution, and despite the absence of a definitive aetiological diagnosis, it was decided to discharge the patient home and continue close outpatient follow-up and study. After 8 months of follow-up, the patient was asymptomatic, with better control of blood pressure and glycaemia, better exercise tolerance, reporting only an episode of self-limited stabbing pain 6 months after the index event, with complete recovery of renal function, reduction of inflammatory markers, as well as CA 125 and glycosylated haemoglobin. Radiological improvement with disappearance of cardiomegaly, leaving minimal residual pericardial effusion of 3-4 mm on the free wall of the RV. The patient is currently undergoing an aetiological study by internal medicine.


DIAGNOSIS
Severe pericardial effusion with progression to cardiac tamponade.
Urgent pericardiocentesis (haematic pericardial fluid).
Etiology unknown, so far idiopathic.
Preserved left ventricular function.
