HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

A 69-year-old man was referred to the outpatient cardiology department for presenting coronary calcifications evidenced in a thoracic CT scan for lung cancer screening.
The patient has a history of arterial hypertension (AHT) with good home control, impaired fasting blood glucose (pre-diabetes), obesity (body mass index [BMI] 33.2 kg/m2), past smoking with cumulative exposure of 50 pack-years, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) of the chronic bronchitis type and benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH). His usual treatment consists of simvastatin 10 mg/day, terazosin 2 mg/day, valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide 320/25 mg/day and omeprazole 20 mg/day.
He has no chest pain at rest or on exertion or symptoms suggestive of heart failure.
He is completely asymptomatic.
During the consultation, he was in good general condition, normal colour and normohydrated.
Eupneic at rest. Blood pressure (BP) 125/70 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 65 bpm, SatO2 98% (with room air). Jugular venous pressure normal. Cardiac auscultation is rhythmic with no audible murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation shows preserved vesicular murmur without added sounds. Radial and pedial pulses are palpable, rhythmic and symmetrical. There was no oedema.
With the available data, treadmill exercise testing was requested in order to rule out silent myocardial ischaemia.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Chest CT scan without contrast: signs of pulmonary emphysema predominantly in the upper lobes. No visible pulmonary masses or nodules. No adenopathy in the mediastinal region. Severe calcification of coronary arteries (visual CAC-DRS: 3). Slight aortic calcification.
Chest X-ray (PA and lateral): no alterations in the cardiomediastinal silhouette. No signs of consolidation, masses or pleural effusion. Apparent calcifications in coronary arteries and aorta.
Blood tests: glucose 110 mg/dl, creatinine 0.89 mg/dl, estimated GFR by CKD-EPI 87.51 mg/dl, total cholesterol 215 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 58 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 149 mg/dl, HbA1c 5.6%, haemogram and coagulation without alterations.
Baseline ECG: sinus rhythm at 85 bpm. Normal PR (160 ms). Left axis (HSAI).
Narrow QRS, q wave in I and aVL. T wave inversion in aVL. Occasional supraventricular extrasystoles.
Ergometry on treadmill: performed according to Bruce protocol and stopped due to physical exhaustion. Maximum effort test (maximum HR 157 bpm, 103% theoretical maximum HR) normal. Well tolerated. Adequate adaptation of heart rate and blood pressure (maximum BP 200/100 mmHg). Normal aerobic functional capacity (exercised for 8 minutes and reached a work level of 10.2 METS), adequate double product reserve (19,385). No significant arrhythmias have occurred. No electrocardiographic or clinical signs of inducible ischaemia during the test.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient has remained cardiologically asymptomatic. Given the finding of severe calcification of the coronary arteries by visual score, without clinical angina or evidence of ischaemia in the ergometry, conservative treatment with optimisation of pharmacological treatment was decided upon.
The patient was considered at very high risk, so simvastatin 10 mg/day was replaced by rosuvastatin 20 mg/day with a target LDL < 70 mg/dl and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg/day was added to the usual treatment.
We insisted on hygienic-dietary measures, BP measurements at home and the need for weight loss, as well as the symptoms for which she should consult. Follow-up with blood tests were scheduled to assess LDL cholesterol and impaired fasting blood glucose levels.

DIAGNOSIS
Subclinical coronary atherosclerosis. Severe coronary calcification, asymptomatic.
Very high cardiovascular risk: exobtachism. Dyslipidaemia with suboptimal control.
Hypertension with good control. Impaired fasting blood glucose. Obesity.
