History, current illness and physical examination
76-year-old patient with no known drug allergies and a personal medical history of: arterial hypertension (AHT), dyslipidaemia (DLP), sleep apnoea-hypopnoea syndrome (SAHS) under treatment with CPAP and diverticular disease; and surgical history of: operation for Morton's neuroma, hallux valgus of both feet and excision of a rectal polyp.

Usual treatment: enalapril, statin and omeprazole.

Current illness: she attended the emergency department on 10/10/2013 for moderate exertional dyspnoea of 15 days' evolution, orthopnoea, non-radiating pain in the lower sternal region, without vegetative cortex and unrelated to exertion and increasing chronic oedema in the lower extremities. 20 days earlier she had consulted for the same clinical condition and was admitted with a diagnosis of heart failure, but the patient refused because she had a trip planned, so she was prescribed a diuretic and, in the absence of improvement, consulted again.

Physical examination: blood pressure (BP) 95/65 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 79 bpm, O2 saturation 95%. Bilateral jugular ingurgitation. Hepatojugular reflux (HJR) +. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic with slightly muffled sounds. Pulmonary auscultation: bibasal hypoventilation. Lower extremities: bilateral malleolar oedema.

Complementary tests
ECG: sinus rhythm at 75 bpm with decreased voltages.
Blood tests: normal cardiac enzymes, normal thyroid function, CRP 0.74, urea 56, creatinine 0.91, normal ions. Haemogram: leucocytes 8,200 (68% n), red series and platelets normal.
Chest X-ray: cardiomegaly.
Echocardiogram: pericardial effusion mainly anterolateral to the right cavities, with 22 mm separation of pericardial sheets. From subxiphoid access, separation of leaves of 15-20 mm. In the posterior area 8-10 mm. In the anterior pericardial sac, a mass of a somewhat heterogeneous appearance (cysts?, necrosis areas?) approximately 5 cm thick is observed over the right cavities (from just before the AV groove) and over the ascending aorta, which does not cause compression of the cavities and does not appear to infiltrate the myocardium. ʟʟ Hemodynamic compromise data: AD collapse, respiratory transmitral flow variations >25%, dilated inferior vena cava (22 mm) without inspiratory collapse. ʟʟ normal LV. Mild-moderate aortic insufficiency. Normal RV. Mild TR: RV-AD gradient 20 mm Hg. Estimated PAPs 40 mmHg. Left pleural effusion.
Thoracoabdominal CT: significant pericardial effusion with separation of sheets up to 30 mm in the right anterior pericardium. Voluminous mass dependent on pericardial sheets, polylobulated and heterogeneous, which overflows the pericardium and extends to the anterosuperior mediastinum, suggestive of malignant neoplasm, of probable pericardial sarcomatous origin, without being able to exclude other possibilities such as mesothelioma, lymphoma, metastasis, etc. Thyroid enlargement, mainly in the right lobe where small hypodense nodules can be seen. Right tracheobronchial lymph node calcifications and small non-specific left prevascular lymphadenopathy, with no evidence of other lymphadenopathy suggesting metastatic origin. Bilateral pleural effusion in greater quantity on the left side, causing passive atelectasis of the left lower lobe, with no evidence of underlying lung mass. Residual fibrous lesions, apical right. Mild hepatomegaly, with no evidence of focal lesions suggestive of metastasis. Normal kidneys and adrenal glands. Spleen, pancreas, gallbladder and biliary tract without notable alterations. Conclusion: suspected malignant neoplasm of pericardial origin with significant pericardial effusion. Bilateral pleural effusion, greater on the left side, with passive atelectasis of LII.
Pericardial fluid analysis: biochemical analysis: ADA113.1, glucose 0.88, protein 37 g/dl.
Cytological analysis: oligocellular cytology including mature neutrophils and lymphocytes with some isolated activated mesothelial cells. No atypical cells are seen. Inconclusive.
Microbiological analysis: negative aerobic and anaerobic culture, direct smear microscopy (staining: Ziehl-Nielsen) with no evidence of AARB, smear microscopy after decontamination (staining: auramine) with no evidence of AARB, negative PCR for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex, negative mycobacterial culture.
Biopsy: biphasic lesion, epithelial and lymphoid, with pattern suggestive of thymoma.
Report notes: 1st reference of possible mass in anterior mediastinum, not filiated but CT and thoracic surgery impression is of pericardial primary lesion/tumour with mediastinal ballooning, 2nd the biphasic pattern with epithelial population (TTF1 (-) and with negative mesothelial markers (calretininin and WT1) and in symbiosis/intimate relationship with small size lymphoid population and "thymic" phenotype (CD45+ CD+, Tdt+, CD99+) suggests in the first instance thymoma, but does not refer to a thymic mass (although ectopic thymomas have been described), although the unlikely possibility of a T-type lymphoblastic lymphoma cannot be ruled out. For all these reasons, a sample was sent to another hospital which confirmed the diagnosis of thymoma.

Clinical course
Given the presence of pericardial effusion with haemodynamic compromise, the patient was admitted to the ICU and evacuating pericardiocentesis was performed via the subxiphoid route with serohaematic fluid output and samples were sent for biochemistry, microbiology and pathological anatomy. After clinical stabilisation, the patient was sent to the cardiology ward for further study and treatment. A pericardial effusion study was performed, requesting a complete blood analysis, autoimmunity study, Mantoux, smear microscopy, thoracoabdominal CT scan, chest X-ray and control echocardiogram. Laboratory tests (including thyroid function) showed no significant alterations, Mantoux test and smear microscopy were negative and the autoimmunity study was normal. The thoracoabdominal CT scan indicated high suspicion of malignant neoplasm of pericardial origin with significant pericardial effusion and bilateral pleural effusion. In view of the presence of malignant neoplasia in the anterior pericardium extending to the anterior superior mediastinum, the Thoracic Surgery Department was requested to collaborate. On 29/10/13 mediastinoscopy was performed with biopsy, and a cardiac mass infiltrating the lung was observed during the procedure. On 30 October he returned to the ICU for respiratory failure due to increased left pleural effusion that required evacuating thoracentesis with an output of 1,000 cc. The biopsy reported thymoma, however, a sample was sent to another hospital to corroborate the diagnosis because the impression of the imaging tests (CT) and thoracic surgery was of a primary pericardial lesion/tumour with mediastinal bulging and because the diagnosis of T-type lymphoblastic lymphoma could not be definitively ruled out due to the anatomopathological data and the absence of visualisation of thymic masses (although ectopic thymomas have been described). The diagnosis of thymoma was confirmed. In view of this finding, a myasthenia gravis study was requested by neurology, which ruled it out.
On 16 December, surgery was performed to try to remove the tumour. This consisted of a median sternotomy and access to the anterior mediastinum, which could only be exploratory as a large tumour mass was observed with infiltration of the right upper lobe, junction to the cava and pericardium, making dissection impossible. She was assessed by the oncology department and no curative treatment could be started. Given the poor clinical situation and the null possibility of curative treatment, analgesia was intensified and the patient died.

Diagnosis
Invasive thymoma with pericardial involvement as a cause of severe pericardial effusion.
