BACKGROUND, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 29-year-old woman.

History
Family history: father died of sudden death with suspected ischaemic heart disease at the age of 58 years, in April 2020 (no autopsy due to COVID-19 pandemic situation). No known drug allergies. Personal history: asthmatic bronchitis, thalassaemia minor. No contact at risk for COVID-19 infection. No past infection. Not vaccinated. Toxic habits: active smoking (10 packs/year), daily use of cannabis. Previous medication: levonorgestrel/ethinylestradiol as oral contraceptive, inhaled formoterol/budesonide on demand, folic acid.

Current illness
She came to the emergency department for chest pain. The previous day she had presented with oppressive central chest pain at rest one hour after eating, increasing with deep inspiration, non-radiating, without vegetative cortex. The patient had consulted her health centre, where she underwent an electrocardiogram that showed no abnormalities. During the night she presented vomiting and diarrhoeic stools, as well as persistent pain, which finally subsided with a 600 mg ibuprofen tablet, allowing her to rest. The day she went to the emergency department, she started again with more intense, stabbing, non-radiating pain, which improved when seated and worsened in the supine decubitus and with inspiration, without vegetative cortex, with a fever of 37.5 oC, with no other symptoms. The patient denied temperature control in previous days. On our assessment in the emergency department, intravenous acetylsalicylic acid was administered, with partial relief of pain, which persisted only on deep inspiration. The patient reported having presented some months earlier with non-specific precordial discomfort, always self-limited and without other symptoms, which she related to anxiety. There were no previous episodes suggestive of angina and no recent worsening of functional class. Laboratory tests showed an elevation of ultrasensitive troponin, in a downward curve. An electrocardiogram was performed, showing diffuse ST segment elevation in the inferior and anterior face, as well as urgent echocardioscopy at the bedside, which showed a left ventricle that was neither dilated nor hypertrophic, with apical septal akinesia and of the apical segment of the right ventricle, with no other notable pathological findings.

Physical examination
Blood pressure (BP) 142 /82 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 120 bpm, oxygen saturation 99% (with room air). Acceptable general condition, normohydrated, normoperfused, eupneic at rest. No jugular ingurgitation. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: vesicular murmur preserved in all fields, no extra sounds. Lower limbs: no oedema, no signs of deep vein thrombosis, good distal perfusion, symmetrical pulses.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC on admission: haemoglobin 12.9 g/dl, leukocytes 18,040 /μl with 14,670 neutrophils/μl, 1,880 lymphocytes/μl, platelets 412.000 /μl, D-dimer 310 mg/ml, creatinine 0.67 mg/dl with estimated glomerular filtration rate > 90 ml/min/1.73 m2, ions in normal range, GOT 202, GPT 36, LDH 555, GGT 20 IU/l, total bilirubin 0.82 mg/dl. CPK 1,079 IU/l, HDL cholesterol 36 mg/dl, LDL 135 mg/dl, CRP 18.7 mg/l, troponin I (hs-TnI) 19,141 -> 15,540 ng/l (normal < 53.5 ng/l), NTproBNP 1,982 pg/ml. CBC 3rd day of admission: haemogram normal, renal function and ions normal; CRP rising 196 mg/l. Procalcitonin normal. Electrocardiogram on admission: sinus rhythm at 67 bpm, PR < 200 ms, narrow QRS, normal axis. Amputated R wave in V4-V5. Diffuse ST elevation in V2-V5 and inferior aspect. Electrocardiogram after 24 hours: sinus rhythm at 75 bpm, PR < 200 ms, narrow QRS, normal axis, ST-segment elevation in V2-5 and inferior aspect with negative T-wave in the same leads. Chest X-ray on admission: cardiothoracic index within normal limits, free costophrenic sinuses, no evidence of vascular redistribution, no parenchymal opacities. SARS-CoV-2 PCR on admission and at 8 days: undetectable. SARS-CoV-2 serology: IgG negative; IgM positive. Transthoracic echocardiogram 2nd day of admission: non-dilated, non-hypertrophic left ventricle, with preserved global systolic function. Akinesia of the apex and apical segments of the inferior septum and inferior face, and of the apical and middle segment of the anterior septum.
Apical intracavitary thrombus with a fresh appearance. Right ventricle of normal size and function. Akinesia of the most apical segment of the right ventricular free wall. Atria of normal size. Mild tricuspid insufficiency without other valvulopathies. Minimal amount of pericardial fluid. CT of coronary arteries 2nd day of admission: (video 2) calcium score: Agatston 0. Coronary arteries with normal anatomical origin. Right dominance. Left coronary artery trunk: vessel of good development, without lesions. Anterior descending (AD): well-developed vessel. In the middle segment, between the exit of the 2nd diagonal and the septal, there is a lesion of about 5 mm in length that stenoses the lumen by 50%, which is compatible with soft plaque as a first possibility. Diagonals: 2 of moderate development, without lesions and one septal of good development. Circumflex (CX): well-developed vessel, without lesions. Marginal obtuse: 4 vessels, the first of which is very poorly developed, the rest are well developed, without lesions. Right coronary artery (RC): dominant vessel of good development, without lesions. Posterior descending pulmonary artery (PVI): poorly developed, no lesions. Chest visualisation: thrombus in the cardiac apex. No pericardial effusion. Catheterisation on the 2nd day of admission: (videos 3 and 4) right radial access. Trunk: no lesions. LAD: normodeveloped, with eccentric focal stenosis in the middle segment, with contrast defect highly suggestive of parietal thrombus. The distal LAD presents abundant contrastation defects that suggest thrombus embolisation as a first possibility. CX: no significant lesions. CD: dominant, with contrastation defect in proximal segment compatible with intracoronary thrombus. Good distal vessel. Catheterisation on the 12th day of admission: angiographic review and optical coherence tomography (OCT). Left coronary artery (LMCA) without lesions. The anterior descending artery of good calibre and development with angiographically mild atheromatosis in the middle segment, distal to the exit of the main diagonal branch. The distal vessel showed TIMI 3 flow, with no angiographic evidence of thrombus. OCT was performed, visualising a completely healthy distal vessel with the presence of a lipid plaque in the middle LAD, with a thin layer fibroatheroma and very focal intimal rupture, immediately distal to the diagonal, with a minimal non-pathological luminal area (MLA 7.5 mm2) and absence of thrombus. Circumflex of good calibre and development without significant lesions. Dominant right coronary artery of good calibre and development without significant lesions. The thrombus is not visualised in the proximal segment and the vessel has distal TIMI 3 flow. OCT was not performed in CD due to ostial spasm with the catheter. Conclusion: apical infarction secondary to thrombotic lesion in the middle LAD with embolisation of thrombus to the distal vessel (which is healthy on OCT). Probable coronary embolism from thrombus in LV apex to DC, resolved after antithrombotic treatment. Transthoracic echocardiogram at discharge: non-dilated, non-hypertrophic left ventricle, with preserved global systolic function. Akinesia of the apical segments and strict apex with mobile intracavitary thrombus of smaller size and echogenicity than in the previous echocardiogram (1.5 x 1.2 cm). Right ventricle of normal size and function. Atria of normal size. Minimal tricuspid insufficiency without other valvulopathies. No indirect evidence of pulmonary hypertension. Minimal amount of pericardial fluid as previously described.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was admitted to the coronary unit in respiratory and contact isolation due to the positive result of the Sars-Cov-2 PCR, with the initial diagnostic suspicion of viral myopericarditis for observation and completion of the study. A regular echocardiogram was performed with an image of intracavitary thrombus that was not present the previous day, so anticoagulant treatment was started with i.v. unfractionated heparin. Given the echocardiogram findings and taking into account the patient's low cardiovascular risk, a CT scan of the coronary arteries was performed showing at least a moderate lesion in the LAD artery. Coronary angiography showed intracoronary thrombosis without underlying atherosclerotic lesions in the middle and distal LAD and proximal RCA, with preserved flow. Given the suspicion of an underlying prothrombotic state (patient smoker, in treatment with oral contraceptives and active SARS-CoV2 infection) and given that the patient was asymptomatic at that time and haemodynamically stable, initial pharmacological management was decided with infusion of a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor, followed by treatment with anticoagulation and double antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel. During her stay in the coronary unit, the patient presented chest discomfort with an inflammatory profile, with an increase in acute phase reactants (CRP rising to 149 mg/l), without pericardial effusion. Bacterial superinfection was ruled out and treatment with colchicine was started, with good clinical evolution and improvement in the analytical parameters of inflammation in the following days. He was transferred to the cardiology ward where he remained clinically stable. A new control coronary angiography was performed ten days after the first one, where the previous thrombi in the LAD and DC were not visualised. OCT showed a lipid plaque in the middle LAD, with thin layer fibroatheroma and very focal intimal rupture. Given the angiographic evolution, the patient's clinical profile and the findings on intracoronary imaging techniques, conservative management of the lesion in the middle LAD was decided. A control echocardiogram prior to discharge showed persistent thrombus in the apex, although smaller than in previous studies. During the following days, treatment was maintained with acenocoumarol and clopidogrel. The patient was discharged with the following treatment: clopidogrel, acenocoumarol, pantoprazole, bisoprolol, atorvastatin and colchicine. She was assessed by haematology and a thrombophilia study was decided once the acute phase had passed, on an outpatient basis. Smoking cessation was recommended and hormonal contraception was discontinued. The patient progressed favourably, the SARS-CoV2 infection resolved, and she was discharged to continue outpatient follow-up.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute pericarditis due to SARS-CoV-2.
Acute coronary syndrome of the anterior STEMI type: thrombosis in the middle anterior descending artery due to atheroma plaque instability with distal embolisation.
Embolic infarction in proximal right coronary artery with preserved distal flow, without angiographically significant atheromatous stenosis.
Apical akinesia with apical thrombus. Preserved global left ventricular systolic function.
Suspected thrombophilia, pending completion of the study.
