HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
49-year-old woman, with no known allergies or toxic habits. Lives at home with her parents, under guardianship, independent for basic activities of daily living (BADLL). No cardiovascular risk factors or family history of heart disease. Cardiological history of mitral prolapse with moderate mitral insufficiency under follow-up in cardiology consultations. Other history of: cognitive deficit secondary to intrauterine infection, micrognathia and psoriasis without associated osteoarthritis. No treatment as usual.   Current illness Admission to cardiology, after detecting in outpatient clinic, where he went for review of his valvulopathy, ECG compatible with evolved AMI with anteroseptal Q wave, paucisymptomatic. Anamnesis was difficult due to the patient's baseline condition; we spoke to her parents, who reported that she had presented at home in the previous days with episodes of epigastric pain and diffuse abdominal pain, which subsided with paracetamol 1g/8h, and for which they did not consult, without associated vegetative cortex. They denied objective dyspnoea, chest pain or syncope. There was no fever or associated infectious semiology at any level. Likewise, for approximately two weeks, the patient has had clinical symptoms of instability with behavioural alterations, pending an appointment for neurological assessment.


Physical examination
Blood pressure 120/75 mmHg, heart rate 98 bpm. Baseline O2 saturation 98%. Afebrile. Conscious, oriented, normohydrated and perfused, eupneic at rest. Cachexia (body mass index 15). No jugular ingurgitation at 45o. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, known mitral II/VI systolic murmur. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen: soft, depressible, preserved peristalsis, painful on general palpation, no signs of peritoneal irritation, no murmurs. Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis. No loss of skin continuity.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG on admission: sinus tachycardia at 127 bpm. ST elevation V1-V4 Q in V1 V2. ECG on discharge: sinus rhythm at 90 bpm, with negative T waves from V1 to V4. Myocardial necrosis markers: ultrasensitive troponin T: 1050 -> 968.8 ng/l. Blood tests: biochemistry: glucose 120 mg/dl, HbA1c 5.5%, urea 0.5 g/l, creatinine 1 mg/dl, glomerular filtration rate 90 ml/min. Total cholesterol 112 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 54 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 45 mg/dl, triglycerides 83 mg/dl, sodium140 mEq/l, potassium 4 mEq/l. TSH 0.6 mcU/ml. Blood count: haemoglobin 14.2 g/dl, haematocrit 40%, leucocytes 6400/mm3, platelets 305000/mm3. Coagulation: AP 75%, INR 1, fibrinogen 465 mg/dl. Chest X-ray: normal cardiomediastinal silhouette. Hiatal hernia. Bilateral apical fibrocystic fibrocystic tracts. No acute pleuroparenchymal alterations. Myocardial perfusion scan at rest: non-viability. Myocardial necrosis in the apex and anteroapical and anteroseptal segments (infarct area between 16% and 22% of the left ventricular area; LVEF 53%). Coronary computed tomography (CT): occlusion of the middle anterior descending artery (AD) with permeable and filiform apical bed. AMI in the anterior and apical septum (thinning and hypoperfusion in the apex and anterior septum). No perivalvular abscesses are observed. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) on admission: apical akinesia with preserved systolic function (LVEF 55%). Mass visualised on the atrial side of the anterior leaflet in the mitral valve suggestive of vegetations, hypermobile, 1.17/0.5 cm in size, filiform with a wide base of implantation that conditions moderate-severe mitral insufficiency (A2-P3) with posterior eccentric jet and Coanda effect, without systolic inversion in the pulmonary veins. No perforation of the leaflet or mitroaortic fibrosis was observed. There is no mitral valve stenosis. Dilated left atrium. Thin layer of pericardial effusion. Echocardiogram at 6 weeks: left ventricle of normal size and thickness, with borderline systolic function (LVEF 50%). Akinesia and apical thinning. Moderate left atrial dilatation. Normal right chambers. Remarkable decrease in the size of the vegetation in the anterior mitral leaflet (almost complete disappearance). Mitral valve prolapse of the anterior leaflet causing moderate regurgitation with eccentric jet (similar to studies prior to admission). No perforation of the leaflet or involvement of the mitroaortic fibrosa was observed. The rest of the patient had no significant valvular alterations. Pulmonary arterial systolic pressure cannot be calculated due to the absence of tricuspid insufficiency. Aortic root of normal size. No pericardial effusion. Microbiology: Blood cultures 25/01/2020: Streptococcus anginosus. Urine culture 25/01/2020: negative. PCR influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) 07/02/2020: negative. Urine culture 07/02/2020: Escherichia coli. Blood cultures on 28/01, 05/02, 07/02 and 11/02/2020: negative. Abdominal CT scan: hiatus hernia. Uterine myoma of 14 mm. Rest without alterations. Craniocerebral CT scan: hyperdense area compatible with haemorrhagic focus of 10 x 7 mm in left fronto-parietal lobe, which does not rule out the existence of underlying pathology. Rest of the brain parenchyma without significant alterations. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain: left occipital annular uptake that could be related to septic embolism, as well as left occipital temporal temporal corticojuxtacortical signal alteration suggesting acute-subacute ischaemic lesion and left frontal subacute haemorrhagic focus. In context, the findings could all be related to septic embolism.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Admitted with a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction, paucisymptomatic. In the first hours of hospitalisation he presented febrile peaks of up to 38oC, with no associated infectious semiology, so blood and urine cultures were requested, PCR for respiratory viruses and empirical antibiotic therapy was started, which was modified after growth of S. anginosus in the first 24 hours in both blood cultures, to intravenous penicillin G sodium and intravenous gentamicin. TTE showed apical akinesia with preserved LVEF and an image suggestive of vegetation in the anterior mitral leaflet (atrial side) of 11 mm, which led to moderate regurgitation with eccentric jet. Of note, it was impossible to perform a transesophageal echocardiogram due to the patient's facial anatomy. On the one hand, in the case of a recently diagnosed advanced acute myocardial infarction, a viability study was performed with myocardial perfusion scintigraphy at rest, showing an absence of viability in the segments compatible with the LAD territory. A coronary CT scan was also performed, confirming occlusion in the mid LAD with a permeable and filiform apical bed. It was decided not to revascularise due to the absence of clinical benefit, and the patient remained stable without new episodes of chest pain. Residual LV systolic function was preserved with apical akinesia at discharge. On the other hand, with the diagnosis of subacute endocarditis in native mitral valve, together with the initial clinical manifestations of instability and behavioural alteration, as well as diffuse abdominal pain, an extension study was performed with: Cranioencephalic CT and cerebral MRI which confirmed the existence of images suggestive of septic embolisms and abdominal CT where no significant alterations were found. Both ruled out the presence of abscesses. A gynaecological examination was also performed, which ruled out abscess or complications at this level.

Subsequent clinical and haemodynamic evolution was favourable, with negative blood cultures at 72 hours, presenting as a complication urinary tract infection by E coli and Enterococcus faecium 2 weeks after starting antibiotherapy, for which treatment was escalated, replacing penicillin with ceftriaxone, completing 6 weeks of antibiotic treatment, with no other complications. After completing the 6 weeks, a new control TTE was repeated, where the vegetation practically disappeared, with prolapse of the anterior mitral leaflet leading to moderate residual mitral insufficiency similar to previous studies and preserved left ventricular systolic function. Given the absence of progression of mitral regurgitation (MR) and the disappearance of valvular vegetations in a frail patient (FRAIL 5; CFS 7), conservative treatment was chosen. Finally, after completion of the physiotherapy programme by the rehabilitation service, with progressive recovery of motor function, she was discharged home with outpatient follow-up, with no episodes of decompensation to date and in NYHA functional class I at the last review.

DIAGNOSIS
Subacute endocarditis on native mitral valve (anterior leaflet) due to Streptococcus anginosus (viridans) resolved with prolonged antibiotic therapy and complicated with septic embolism:

Acute embolic apical myocardial infarction with occlusion in middle LAD not revascularised due to lack of viability.
Left occipital and left frontotemporal ischaemic cerebrovascular accident (CVA) (with subsequent haemorrhagic transformation) due to septic embolisms.

Borderline residual LV systolic function (LVEF 50%) with apical akinesia.

Urinary tract infections due to E coli and Enterococcus faecium.
