HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
A 70-year-old man, hypertensive with no other personal or family history of interest, was transferred by helicopter by the Emergency Department with suspected acute coronary syndrome. The patient was in an area difficult to access by road and called the Emergency Services referring intense chest pain and nausea.
At the time of assessment by Cardiology, the patient was cloudy, haemodynamically unstable (BP 70/40), poorly perfused and with severe chest pain. On cardiac auscultation, no murmurs were heard and the tones were muffled. Pulmonary auscultation revealed no extra sounds. No peripheral pulses are palpable.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm with ST-segment elevation of 5 mm V2-V6, I, aVL, II, III and aVF with ST-segment elevation in V1 and aVR. Transthoracic echocardiogram: LV without apparent contractility alterations. A flap from the aorta is observed in the ventricular cavity, with moderate aortic insufficiency, without adequate visualisation of the ascending aorta. The right cavities are normal and there is no pericardial effusion. Angio-CT scan: in the non-contrast phase, linear calcification is identified in the lumen of the aortic arch, as well as calcifications in the lumen of the abdominal aorta cranial to the renal vessels and both common iliac arteries, compatible with atheroma plaques with displacement of the intima and therefore compatible with the suspicion of dissection. Aneurysm of the ascending aorta measuring 5 cm. The lung parenchyma showed interstitial thickening, bilateral infiltrates predominantly in posterior regions and small pleural effusions, suggestive of oedema.

EVOLUTION
Given the echocardiographic findings, emergent CT angiography was requested and Cardiac Surgery was notified for possible intervention. Norepinephrine perfusion was started and the patient was immediately transferred to radiology. There he presented with desaturation requiring OTI and then extreme bradycardia which prevented a valid CT angiography. Only non-contrast images were acquired in the arterial phase, which were compatible with the suspicion of dissection of a 5 cm ascending aortic aneurysm, together with pulmonary oedema. The patient rapidly evolves unfavourably, with extreme bradycardia persisting despite advanced resuscitation manoeuvres, which degenerates into asystole and death.

DIAGNOSIS
Ascending aortic aneurysm.
Acute aortic syndrome with suspected coronary and aortic valve involvement.
Evolution to cardiogenic shock and exitus.
