HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
68-year-old woman, with no known drug allergies, hypertension, with a history of subclinical hypothyroidism, arthritis, osteoporosis, hypermetropia and glaucoma. No family history of interest. For two months she had been experiencing episodes of central thoracic pressure radiating to the left upper extremity (ESI) on exertion, which self-limited spontaneously within a few minutes. On the day of her admission, she went to her health centre for presenting while walking with oppressive precordial pain radiating to the shoulder and LTE, similar to previous episodes but of greater intensity and duration (about 30 minutes). An ECG was performed with pain that showed sinus rhythm with negative T wave in V4-6, I and AVL, for which she was transferred to our centre. On arrival at the ED, BP 194/97 mmHg, HR 108 bpm, O2 saturation 95% baseline, and an ECG was performed even with chest pain, which was similar to that described previously. A few minutes later, after cessation of pain and control of blood pressure, a new ECG was performed in which the described alterations disappeared. In a subsequent control ECG, electrical alterations were again observed, with a negative T wave in V2-6, I and AVL, although the patient remained asymptomatic at that time. Physical examination: conscious and oriented, normohydrated and well perfused. Eupneic at rest with no signs of respiratory work. No IY or other congestive signs. AC: rhythmic around 105 bpm, no murmurs or audible extratonos. PA: normoventilation in all fields. Abdomen was nondescript. LES: no oedema or signs of DVT.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG 1: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, negative T wave in V4-6, I and AVL.
ECG 2: sinus rhythm at 70 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, no repolarisation abnormalities.
ECG 3: sinus rhythm at 75 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, negative T wave in V4-V6, I and AVL.
Blood tests: troponin I < 0.01 (by 3 determinations). Glucose 103 mg/dl, urea 32 mg/dl, creatinine 0.86 mg/dl, uric acid 5.60 mg/dl, triglycerides 135 mg/dl, serum cholesterol 136 mg/dl, serum HDL cholesterol 36 mg/dl, serum LDL cholesterol (calculated) 73 mg/dl, chloride 102 mEq/L, sodium 141 mEq/L, K 4.6 mEq/L, CK 60 U/L, FA 64 U/L, GGT 19 U/L, GOT 20 U/L, GPT 26 U/L. Leukocytes 8,300/microlitre, Hb 16.4 g/dL, Hto 48.2 %, MCV 90 fl. Platelets 250,000/microlitre.
Chest X-ray: normal cardiomediastinal silhouette, without pleuroparenchymal alterations of acute evolution.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: non-dilated LV, with mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. Global systolic function preserved, without segmental alterations of contractility. Normal diastolic pattern, with non-elevated LVEDP data. Right chambers of normal dimensions, RV normocontractile (TAPSE 21 mm, S" wave 11 cm/sec). MV thin veils, not limited in its opening, minimal central MI. VAo trivalva, preserved opening without generating significant gradient, competent. Mild TR. Estimated normal PAPs. No pericardial effusion or intracavitary masses by this access route.
Coronary angiography: left common trunk without angiographic disease. Anterior descending: intramyocardial bridging in mid-distal segment with significant milking. Rest of the vessel very looped without angiographic disease. Circumflex: very looped vessel, without angiographic disease. Right coronary: dominant. Slight ostial sharpening, which is calcified. Rest of the vessel without angiographic disease. In conclusion: very tortuous coronary arteries without significant angiographic disease and mid-distal LAD with intramyocardial bridging leading to significant milking.

EVOLUTION
The physical examination was normal at all times, as were the laboratory tests, and there was no evidence of enzyme elevation compatible with myocardial necrosis. A chest X-ray was performed, showing no radiological alterations of acute evolution, and an echocardiogram was performed with no findings of interest. The clinical picture was interpreted as unstable angina with dynamic electrocardiographic changes suggestive of ischaemia, so the case was discussed with the Intensive Care Unit and, given the patient's haemodynamic stability, it was decided to admit her to Cardiology. The patient was admitted to our department, with continuous monitoring. After 24 hours, coronary angiography showed very tortuous coronary arteries with no significant angiographic disease and mid-distal LAD with intramyocardial bridging leading to significant milking. The patient remained asymptomatic throughout admission, with good control of blood pressure and no arrhythmic events during monitoring. She was discharged after 48 hours with low-dose beta-blocker treatment (emconcor 2.5 mg every 24 hours). The patient has recently been assessed in cardiology consultations, remaining asymptomatic with good functional class, so the prescribed treatment has been maintained.

DIAGNOSIS
Chest pain. Coronary arteries without significant angiographic lesions. Intramyocardial tract of the anterior descending artery at mid-distal level with significant milking. Preserved systolic function.
