HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Male, 35 years old. Native of Morocco.
No known drug allergies.
Smoker of 1 pack a day (AI 20 pack-years). Non-drinker.
No cardiovascular risk factors. No history of known heart disease.
Single admission in Spain for middle lobe pneumonia in 2015. He reported few medical check-ups in his country previously. History of rheumatic fever at 10 years of age.
No surgical interventions. No usual treatment.

Present illness
She came to the emergency department with a cough with yellowish expectoration and a feeling of dystrophy, of 2 days' evolution.
She also reported medium-effort dyspnoea of progressive onset during the last 6-12 months, for which she had not consulted.

Physical examination
Blood pressure (BP) 108/72 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 96 bpm, temperature 36.3 oC, oxygen saturation 96% at baseline.
Conscious and oriented in all 3 spheres. Good general condition. Good hydration and perfusion status. Eupneic at rest.
Head and neck: no IY.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic at 110 bpm, in mitral focus opening snap and diastolic rumble.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur.
Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation. No masses or megaliths. No signs of peritoneal irritation.
Lower extremities: No oedema.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 70 bpm. P wave of 0.12 msec, bimodal, predominantly negative in V1, compatible with LA growth. Normal PR. Narrow QRS with axis at 90o. No acute repolarisation alterations.
Chest X-ray: PA/LAT projections: normal cardiomediastinal silhouette. Pattern of vascular redistribution. Fluid in cystole. No pulmonary condensation or pleural effusion.
Blood tests: glucose 85 mg/dl, urea 44 mg/dl, creatinine 0.99 mg/dl, sodium 137 mEq/l, potassium 4.4 mEq/l, albumin 4.5 g/dl, C-reactive protein (CRP) 1.75 mg/l, haemoglobin 13.7 g/dl, platelets 157 *10^3/ƒÊL, leukocytes 17.2 *10^3/ƒÊL, neutrophils 87.1% 43.
Echocardiogram: left ventricle (LV) not dilated or hypertrophic with preserved function. Diastolic pattern of elongated relaxation. Mild right ventricular (RV) dysfunction. Moderately to severely dilated LA. Severely calcified and thickened mitral valve and subvalvular apparatus, predominantly at free edges, with bicommissural fusion, resulting in severe stenosis (area calculated by hemi-pressure time 0.94 cm2 and by planimetry 0.76 cm, with maximum gradient 17 mmHg and mean gradient 13 mmHg). Wilkins scale 13-14 points (mobility 3 points: valve continues to move forward in diastole; subvalvular thickening 3-4 points: extensive thickening extending to distal third of chordae - up to papillary muscles; valvular thickening 4 points: extending over the entire leaflet [8-10 mm]; calcification 3 points: sheen reaching the medial areas of the leaflets). No mitral insufficiency. Calcified aortic valve with mild regurgitation. Mild tricuspid insufficiency. Normal pulmonary pressure. No pericardial effusion.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient, who initially attended the emergency department with symptoms compatible with a respiratory infection, was finally diagnosed with severe mitral stenosis on the basis of exploratory and echocardiographic findings.
Given the clinical manifestations and severity of the valve disease, it was decided to schedule surgery. Beforehand, the patient underwent an angio-CT scan that ruled out coronary lesions. Given the score of 13-14 on the Wilkins scale, it was decided to replace the valve with a mechanical prosthesis, which was carried out without incident. The patient was discharged home.

DIAGNOSIS
Severe mitral stenosis of rheumatic origin. History of rheumatic fever in childhood. Respiratory tract infection.
