HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
HBP. Dyslipidaemia. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation on OAC treatment.
Diagnosed with bladder tumour, TUR performed by the Urology Department. Under outpatient follow-up. She has had a DDDR permanent pacemaker for 2 months due to sinus node disease diagnosed following a syncopal episode. Active fixation electrode.  Current illness Initially admitted to the Pneumology Department due to exertional dyspnoea, asthenia and pleuritic chest pain.

Physical examination
BP 110/60 mmHg. HR 90 bpm. SatO2 98 % with nasal goggles at 2 l/min. Cardiac auscultation: R1 and R2 rhythmic and regular, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: hypoventilation in the middle and lower left hemithorax. Abdomen: non-painful, with no signs of peritoneal irritation. Lower extremities: no oedema. Neurological examination: functions preserved.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 75 bpm, BRDHH, HBAS. T-negative lower and lateral face. CBC: leukocytes 6,800/uL with 63.7% neutrophils, Hb 11.5 g/dL, Ht: 33.8%, platelets 255,000/uL, urea 23 mg/dL, creatinine 0.91 mg/dL, Na 142 mEq/L, K 4.3 mEq/L. Chest X-ray: bicameral pacemaker. Significant left pleural effusion. Echocardioscopy: LV of normal dimensions. Preserved LVEF. No apparent segmental alterations of contractility. Normal right cavities with preserved visual contractility. No significant valvulopathies. Absence of pericardial effusion. Computed tomography (CT) of the chest: bicameral pacemaker with leads in the right atrium and ventricle. Perforation of the apex of the right ventricle by the ventricular electrode, the end of which is located about 4 cm outside the cardiac contour, is confirmed. There is a small haematoma in the sinus of the cardiophrenic fat. There is no pericardial effusion. There is abundant left pleural effusion, of high density, compatible with haemothorax. No pneumothorax was identified. Partial passive atelectasis of LSI and complete atelectasis of LII.

EVOLUTION
Twenty-four hours after admission, he presented dizziness and postural instability without loss of consciousness and chest pain with pleuritic characteristics, for which we requested an assessment. The pacemaker device was checked and failed to sense and stimulate the ventricular electrode. Echocardioscopy without pericardial effusion. Despite the absence of pericardial effusion, due to suspicion of myocardial perforation by the ventricular electrode, an urgent thoracic CT scan was requested and the diagnosis was confirmed. The patient underwent emergency surgery in the operating theatre, and the ventricular electrode was removed percutaneously with repositioning in the RVOT, verifying correct thresholds, sensing and impedance, and the respective chest drain was implanted in the same procedure. The evolution was favourable, with resolution of the haemothorax, correct functioning of the pacing device and asymptomatic at discharge.

DIAGNOSIS
Late myocardial perforation of RV apex by pacemaker lead. Reimplantation of ventricular lead in RVOT. Secondary haemothorax resolved on discharge.
