HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Male, 45 years old. No drug allergies. No arterial hypertension, no diabetes mellitus, no dyslipidaemia. No known heart disease or bronchopathy. Advanced chronic kidney disease on haemodialysis programme, secondary to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Renal transplant in May 2018 with acute rejection on the 10th day with good subsequent response. Proximal deep vein thrombosis at the level of superficial femoral, popliteal vein and deep and twin branches of left lower limb in November 2018 in current treatment with acenocoumarol. Pyelonephritis of the renal graft in March 2019 with good response to antibiotic treatment. Current treatment: prednisone 20 mg/24 hours, tacrolimus 4 mg/24 hours, omeprazole 20 mg/24 hours, enoxaparin 60 mg/24 hours and furosemide 40 mg/24 hours.

Present illness
He was admitted from the nephrology department for clinical manifestations of fever, predominantly nocturnal, up to 38.3oC, of 2 weeks of evolution, together with exertional dyspnoea NYHA III, orthopnoea, oedematisation of the lower limbs and cough with whitish expectoration. He had been admitted 2 months previously for the same reason with partial improvement and without identification of the aetiology, but the symptoms recurred after discontinuation of antibiotic therapy. No micturition symptoms, no alterations in bowel habits.

On previous admission, a study was performed for a similar clinical picture and fever of unknown origin. Chest CT scan on admission showed mild pericardial effusion and a micronodular interstitial pattern with well-defined nodules, bilaterally and symmetrically distributed. In this context, blood cultures, urine cultures and serology were negative and there was no PCR detection of cytomegalovirus, Pneumocystis jirovecii (in bronchoalveolar lavage) and respiratory viruses. Negative smear microscopy, PCR for tuberculosis in bronchoalveolar lavage and bronchoaspirate and negative mycobacterial culture. Galactomannan for aspergillus in bronchoalveolar lavage negative. Negative PCR for Leishmania in bone marrow. Given the lack of detection of an aetiological agent during admission and the improvement with antibiotic treatment, it was decided to discharge the patient on a course of ciprofloxacin and follow-up in consultations.

Physical examination
Good general condition. Eupneic at rest. Blood pressure 136/80 mmHg, heart rate 100 bpm, oxygen saturation 96% (FiO2 0.21). Central venous pressure: absence of jugular ingurgitation. Cardiac and respiratory auscultation: rhythmic tones without audible murmurs. Vesicular murmur with no added sounds. Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation. Palpable hepatomegaly and splenomegaly. Murphy and Blumberg negative. Lower limbs: left lower limb with signs of deep venous thrombosis (already known) with increased diameter compared to the right. Right lower limb with oedema in the distal third with fovea.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests on admission: haemoglobin 11.6 g/dl, MCV 77 fl, MCH 23.4 pg, leukocytes 3,350/μl, neutrophils 2,540/μl, lymphocytes 470/μl and platelets 99,000/μ. Biochemistry: glucose 86 mg/dl, urea 119 mg/dl, creatinine 3.34 mg/dl, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium 3.7 mEq/l, chlorine 97 mEq/l, magnesium 1.4 mg/dl. AST 11 U/l, ALT 10 U/l, GGT 104 U/l, alkaline phosphatase 114 U/l, LDH 209 U/l, protein 5.5 g/dl, albumin 2.90 g/dl, iron 34 μg/dl, ferritin 293 μg/ml, transferrin 145 mg/dl, transferrin saturation index 18.46%. Urine system: glucose, protein, bilirubin, haemoglobin, leukocyte esterase and nitrites negative. Sediment normal. Tacrolimus levels: 4.3 ng/ml (therapeutic range 5-10 ng/ml). Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 100 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS with normal axis, no low voltages. No electrical alternans. No repolarisation alterations. Chest CT: bilateral and diffuse micronodular lung pattern. Mild bilateral pleural effusion. Severe pericardial effusion. Blood cultures, urine culture and sputum culture: negative. Mantoux test: negative. Echocardiogram on admission: left atrium of normal size: area 15 cm2 and volume 29 ml (15 ml/m2). Left ventricle of normal size, mild parietal hypertrophy, preserved global systolic function (IVS 14mm, Dd 56 mm, Ds 31 mm, LVEF by Teicholtz 76%). Biphasic filling pattern with E/A ratio at 1.5, E/E' at 6.4 (lateral). No valvulopathies. Normal aortic root. Normal right chambers. Right ventricle with good function (TAPSE of 22 mm, lateral S' peak at 18 cm/sec). Minimal TR allowing estimation of normal PSAP. Normal right atrium with area 15 cm2 and volume 33 ml (16 ml/m2). Inferior vena cava not dilated with adequate inspiratory collapse. Non-dilated suprahepatic veins. Severe circumferential pericardial effusion with an M-mode measurement in the parasternal long axis: 19 + 18 mm. Respiratory variation of mitral filling flow less than 25%. Conclusion: severe pericardial effusion, without haemodynamic repercussion by echocardiography. Chest X-ray after pericardiocentesis: normal cardiothoracic index, not suggestive of pericardial effusion. Increased perihilar vascular network, without condensation or occupation of costophrenic sinuses. Pericardial fluid analysis: Cells: erythrocytes 265,200/μl and leukocytes 1,432/μl (10% neutrophils and 90% monocytes). Glucose 77 mg/dl (VN 70-110 mg/dl), protein 3.9 g/dl, amylase 33 U/l (VN 0-100 U/l), LDH 1,085 U/l. Pathology of pericardial fluid: pericardial fluid cytology negative for malignancy. Cytological smear very haematic with abundant mixed lymphocytic and polymorphonuclear inflammatory cellularity. With fewer histiocytes; no giant cells, no granulomas, no evidence of BAAR with Zhiel technique. Microbiology: Sputum culture and antibiogram: negative. Urine culture and antibiogram: negative. Pericardial fluid bacilloscopy: negative. Pericardial fluid culture and antibiogram: negative. PCR of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in pericardial fluid: PCR of the tuberculous complex positive. Mycobacterium tuberculosis mutations in pericardial fluid: no mutations in RPO-B gene associated with rifampicin resistance were detected. Mycobacterial culture in pericardial fluid: positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (result obtained after discharge). Blood tests prior to discharge: haemoglobin 12.4 g/dl, MCV 81.3 fl, MCH 24.9 pg, leukocytes 2,910/μl, neutrophils 1990/μl, lymphocytes 540/μl and platelets 125,000/μl. Biochemistry: glucose 73 mg/dl, urea 96 mg/dl, creatinine 3.39 mg/dl, sodium 142 mEq/l, potassium 4.5 mEq/l, chlorine 109 mEq/l, magnesium 1.5 mg/dl. AST 14 U/l, ALT 15 U/l, GGT 96 U/l, alkaline phosphatase 128 U/l, LDH 209 U/l, protein 5.4 g/dl, albumin 2.90 g/dl, iron 61 μg/dl, ferritin 271.9 μg/ml, transferrin 142 mg/dl, transferrin saturation index 33.82%.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During admission, he had a good evolution with no fever peaks and improvement of dyspnoea after diuretic and antibiotic treatment. Blood cultures, urine culture, sputum culture and Mantoux were negative. The transthoracic echocardiogram on admission showed preserved biventricular function with severe circumferential pericardial effusion without signs of haemodynamic compromise. As this was a patient with immunosuppressive treatment, fever of unknown origin and these findings in the chest CT scan, tuberculosis was suspected despite Mantoux and negative tests from the previous admission, so treatment was extended for coverage. In addition, it was decided to perform diagnostic pericardiocentesis, previously explaining the risks to the patient due to the presence of liver cysts associated with polycystic kidney disease. It was performed without complications, obtaining 800 ml of serohaematic content and sending the extracted fluid for biochemical and microbiological analysis. Biochemical analysis of the pericardial fluid was compatible with exudate. Cytology showed a very haematic content with abundant mixed lymphocytic and polymorphonuclear inflammatory cellularity. In the microbiological analysis, the culture of the first days was negative, but with positive PCR for tuberculous complex without the presence of mutations in the RPO-B gene associated with resistance to rifampicin. Thus, the diagnosis of tuberculosis was confirmed despite the other negative tests and the corresponding treatment was completed. The patient remained afebrile and improved in analytical and radiographic controls, so it was decided to discharge him from hospital with his immunosuppressive treatment (tacrolimus and prednisone) and with a specific regimen for tuberculosis with isoniazid + pyridoxine, rifabutin, ethambutol and pyrazinamide for 2 months and, subsequently, with isoniazid + pyridoxine and rifabutin for 7 more months. On follow-up, pericardial fluid culture was finally found to be positive for mycobacterium, further supporting the diagnosis. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed at 6 months, with the pericardial effusion resolved and no pericardial constriction. The patient has now completed treatment for tuberculosis without complications and is afebrile and clinically well.

DIAGNOSIS
Pericardial effusion due to Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a patient immunocompromised by renal transplantation. Absence of signs of pericardial constriction at follow-up.
