HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Transfer to the emergency department due to deterioration of the level of consciousness and left hemiplegia.  Personal history Allergy to adolonta, metamizol and tramadol. Smoker of 10-20 cigarettes a day. Percutaneous mitral valvuloplasty with residual mild rheumatic mitral stenosis. Paroxysmal AF. Depressive syndrome. Usual treatment: sintrom. Mother died of aortic aneurysm.

Physical examination
Patient sedated and connected to mechanical ventilation, well adapted. Cardiac auscultation rhythmic, without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur and no added sounds. Left hemiplegia. Positive and symmetrical distal pulses.  Present illness Patient admitted to his hospital of reference for sudden loss of consciousness, accompanied by left hemiplegia. Suspicion of stroke with thromboembolic characteristics led to the activation of the Stroke Code. She was transferred to our centre to complete studies and assess treatment.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Cranial CT scan without intravenous contrast: hypodense lesion affecting the right insular and frontal territory, suggestive of subacute infarction. Angio-CT of supra-aortic trunks and Willis polygon: repletion defect in the M2 branch of the anterior trunk of the right MCA compatible with thrombus. The rest of the intracranial arteries showed no stenosis or repletion defects. Incidentally, an intramural haematoma was observed at the level of the aortic arch, with passage of contrast into the interior, compatible with an unstable penetrating ulcer, so it was decided to complete the study by means of a CT angiography of the thoraco-abdominal aorta. Perfusion CT scan: decrease in flow, increase in mean transit time and decrease in volume affecting almost the entire anterior superficial territory of the right MCA, compatible with subacute infarction. Angio-CT of the thoracoabdominal aorta: intramural haematoma affecting the ascending aorta, aortic arch and descending aorta and extending to the origin of the renal arteries, identifying an aortic ulcer at the level of the arch with active contrast passage, suggestive of unstable haematoma. Bilateral pleural effusion was also observed, more noticeable on the left side. Echocardiogram: severe LA enlargement. Mild non-dilated LVH with preserved EF. Poor diastolic relaxation. Rheumatic mitral valve with mean gradient of 4.7 mmHg. Ascending aorta dilatation of 45 mm. At the level of the sinotubular junction there is an intra-aortic linear image separating two spaces, the smaller posterior one with no lumen inside, which looks like a haematoma. Aortic V. without gradient or insufficiency. Right cavities in the high limit with mild TR and PSAP 28+PVC.

EVOLUTION
65-year-old patient admitted for right hemispheric stroke, in the context of unstable mural haematoma. Given the patient's associated pathology and the surgical risk, emergency surgical treatment was rejected. She was admitted to the ICU, requiring intravenous treatment with antihypertensive drugs and sedation for 48 hours to control her blood pressure. After the sedation period, the patient awoke conscious, with left hemiplegia. The echocardiogram performed after stabilising the patient showed a normofunctioning aortic valve, with the rest of the study similar to that on admission. Haemodynamically, the patient evolved satisfactorily, improving the pulmonary oedema with diuretics and extubation was possible on the tenth day of admission. After the stay in the ICU, the patient was discharged to the hospital ward, where she progressed satisfactorily, without complications. Blood pressure was adequately controlled with beta and alpha blockers. Prior to hospital discharge, a control CT angiography of the thoraco-abdominal aorta was performed, which showed a good evolution of the aortic intramural haematoma, with a reduction in the diameters of the aorta and the mural collection. A small myointimal defect remains adjacent to the origin of the supra-aortic trunks. No alterations were observed at the level of the celiac, superior mesenteric or renal trunks.

DIAGNOSIS
Stroke of the right cerebral hemisphere Intramural aortic haematoma in resolution.
