HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
A 59-year-old man, hypertensive and hypercholesterolemic, with a history of Bentall surgery with implantation of a mechanical aortic prosthesis and a valved tube, as well as coronary revascularisation in the same procedure by means of a bypass of the left internal mammary artery to the anterior descending artery, in its middle segment. This intervention took place 4 years ago. She has no other personal history of interest.
On treatment with acenocoumarol, atorvastatin 40 mg/day, enalapril 10 mg/day and bisoprolol 2.5 mg/day.
At the present time, she presented to the emergency department with fever, shivering and marked asthenia of 24 hours' evolution, with no other associated clinical manifestations or epidemiological history of interest.
On arrival, he presented with fever (temperature 39°C) and hypotension (BP 85/45 mmHg), as well as sinus tachycardia (110 bpm). SatO2 90% on room air. Poor peripheral perfusion with coldness of acral parts. High jugular venous pressure. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, prosthetic sounds. Pulmonary auscultation: crackles in both bases. Lower extremities without oedema.
The initial examinations and complementary tests revealed a situation of hyperlactacidemic metabolic acidosis, which appeared serious, with haemoglobin levels of 12.7 g/dl and leukocytes of 11,500 with neutrophilia (80%), and blood cultures were taken a few minutes after arrival.

In this context, volume expansion, empirical antibiotic therapy with cloxacillin, ampicillin and gentamicin was started, as well as administration of vasoactive drugs, and he was admitted to the intensive care unit. Initially, a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, with no data suggestive of infective endocarditis (IE).

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Two days after admission, the patient developed marked right hemiparesis, and an emergency CT scan and cranial MRI scan were performed, showing the presence of a 2 x 2 cm intraparenchymal cerebral haemorrhage at the level of the left prerirolandic cortex, interrupting his anticoagulant treatment (prescribed by his mechanical prosthesis).
At this point in his evolution, the results of the blood cultures taken were positive for Staphylococcus aureus, and given the high suspicion of infective endocarditis, a cerebral angiography was performed which ruled out the presence of mycotic aneurysms.
Given the existence of a transesophageal echocardiogram 3 days earlier with no signs of endocarditis, a positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) with 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) was performed, which revealed abnormal uptake in the aortic valve prosthesis and in the aortic peritubular area. CT reconstruction showed periaortic thickening, with irregular contour and peripheral late enhancement, compatible with the existence of a periaortic abscess. No abnormal uptake of 18F-FDG was observed in extracardiac locations. At this point, the patient already met the criteria for infective endocarditis (1 major and 3 minor criteria) due to S. aureus on the prosthetic aortic valve and valved tube. Three days later, a new transesophageal echocardiogram was performed, which documented the presence of a large aortic vegetation of 11 mm in greatest diameter.
At this point, one of the first debates in the patient's evolution arose, with the complex decision to choose the optimal time for surgery, which was postponed due to intracranial bleeding.
As for the clinical situation at this time, the patient remained afebrile and progressively experienced an ad integrum recovery of his neurological deficits. 18 days after his admission, after an apparent good evolution, 6 days before his scheduled surgery, he presented with sudden abdominal pain, arterial hypotension and a syncopal episode, and an urgent venous blood gas analysis showed acute anaemisation with Hb of 6 g/dl. Intravenous crystalloids and red cell concentrates were administered. An emergency abdominal ultrasound showed the presence of free intra-abdominal fluid compatible with haemoperitoneum, and a large splenic haematoma, and he was readmitted to the intensive care unit.
Thus, with the diagnosis of acute abdomen, urgent abdominal surgery was performed, which confirmed the diagnosis of haemoperitoneum and acute splenic rupture, making it necessary to proceed with a splenectomy to contain the bleeding, with subsequent anatomopathological analysis confirming the aetiology of the aforementioned splenic rupture as secondary to septic embolism.
Five days later, when the patient was once again on the hospital ward, he presented with severe rectorrhagia with anaemia and haemodynamic instability, requiring transfusion of haemoconcentrates. Initially, endoscopic management was performed and a diagnosis was made of stress gastropathy with multiple duodenal ulcers, treated by implantation of haemoclips. Despite all this, the bleeding recurred on two occasions, so that emergency surgery was finally necessary, and a partial duodenectomy was performed, removing the affected segment.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Finally, one month after the initial admission, his cardiac surgery for infective endocarditis was performed and the infected material was replaced by a new mechanical aortic prosthesis and a valved tube. S. aureus growth was confirmed in the removed prosthetic material.
On the fifth day post-surgery, the patient presented with dizziness and severe arterial hypotension and tachycardia, and a transthoracic echocardiogram confirmed the diagnosis of cardiac tamponade, and he underwent urgent pericardiectomy, with an apparent good result.
After his return to the hospital ward, a control echocardiogram was performed to rule out further complications, which revealed the presence of a pericardial haematoma measuring 6 x 7 x 9 cm, involving the right atrium, which had to be evacuated again in the operating theatre.
Finally, the patient managed to complete the 6 weeks of antibiotic therapy, without presenting new complications, and was discharged after 7 weeks of hospitalisation. Currently, 2 years after his infective endocarditis due to S. aureus, he is asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view.

DIAGNOSIS
Late prosthetic infective endocarditis due to S. aureus. Aortic valve and tube replacement in ascending aorta. Complicated with:
Intraparenchymal cerebral haemorrhage secondary to septic embolism.
Acute abdomen due to splenic rupture due to septic embolism.
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to duodenal stress ulcers. Partial duodenectomy.
Post-surgical cardiac tamponade.
