HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 68 years old.

History
Allergic to penicillin. Ex-smoker for 20 years, no alcohol consumption. Hypertension. No diabetes or dyslipidaemia. No personal or family history of heart disease. Usual treatment: amiloride/hydrochlorothiazide 5/50 mg per day.  Current illness In December 2016, he presented with catarrhal symptoms with dry cough, wheezing and dyspnoea on moderate exertion. He was assessed by his primary care doctor, who classified the case as acute bronchitis and started bronchodilators and treatment with levofloxacin in January and February 2017. A chest X-ray in February 2017 showed vascular redistribution, although diuretic treatment was not started. ECG in February 2017 in sinus rhythm with incomplete LBBB. No febrile or infectious symptoms after December 2016. Good blood pressure self-control. Due to progression of dyspnoea, orthopnoea and oedema, she went to the emergency department. Admitted to the cardiology ward for study and treatment of heart failure.

Physical examination
Conscious and oriented. Tachypneic and tachycardic. BP 147/73 mmHg, HR 90 bpm. Sat 02 95% with Ventimask at 31%. Jugular ingurgitation and hepatojugular reflux. Cardiac auscultation: tachycardic with gallop rhythm, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: bibasal crackles. ABD: soft and depressible, no masses or megaliths, not painful on palpation, peristalsis present. Lower extremities: pretibial oedema in both extremities. No signs of DVT. Peripheral pulses present.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests on admission: creatinine 0.88 mg/dl, urea 53 mg/dl, K 3.5 mEq/L, Na 144 mEq/L, glucose 126 mg/dl, INR 1.16. Haemogram without alterations. Arterial blood gases: pH 7.54, pCO2 24.2 mmHg, pO2 24.2 mmHg, bicarbonate 21.3 mmol/L, lactate 2.15 mmol/L. ECG: sinus rhythm at 86 bpm. Signs of LA growth. Normal PR. Narrow QRS with incomplete LBBB, lateral negative T wave. Chest X-ray: cardiomegaly. Signs of vascular redistribution to upper fields. No pleural effusion or pneumonic consolidation. Echocardiogram 21/04/17: LV dilatation with severely depressed function, hypertrabeculation without echocardiographic criteria of non-compaction (suboptimal window). Mild functional MR. Grade II diastolic dysfunction with elevated LVEDP criteria. Dilated RV with mild dysfunction. Mild TR. Normal PAPs (may be underestimated due to RV dysfunction). Minimally elevated PVC signs. No pericardial effusion. Coronary angiography 24/04/17: no angiographic lesions. Cardiac MRI 26/04/17: dilated LV, wall thickness at the lower limit of normality, hypertrabeculation with criteria of non-compaction in the inferolateral wall (ratio non-compacted myocardium: compacted of 4:1) global hypocontractility with severely depressed EF (24.5%). Dilated LA. Dilated RV with depressed function. Dilated RA. Subjectively mild MR. Minimal pericardial effusion. Presence of intramyocardial uptake in basal and middle segments of septal wall and RV insertion. Conclusions: dilated cardiomyopathy with severe ventricular dysfunction with non-compaction criteria. Intramyocardial septal uptake.
Cranial CT 29/04/17: no established ischaemic brain lesions. No acute haemorrhages. Occlusion of the posterior communicating segment (P2) of the right posterior cerebral artery. Cranial CT 30/04/17: established ischaemic lesions at the level of the right temporo-occipital, ipsilateral thalamus and bilateral cerebellar. Small focus of haemorrhagic transformation in the temporo-occipital lesion.

EVOLUTION
During admission to the ward, depletive treatment was started, together with beta-blockers, ARAII (intolerance to ACE inhibitors due to cough), eplerenone and ivabradine. An echocardiogram was performed showing cardiomyopathy with severe biventricular dysfunction and hypertrabeculation of the left ventricle, without meeting the criteria for non-compaction with suboptimal window. Laboratory tests with normal thyroid profile, autoimmunity and proteinogram. Normal renal function. Coronary angiography ruled out coronary lesions. Finally, for the aetiological study, cardiac MRI was performed which showed the presence of dilated cardiomyopathy with severe ventricular dysfunction with criteria of non-compaction and intramyocardial septal uptake. Enoxaparin was started at anticoagulant doses (1 mg/kg/12 h). During the evolution of the patient's clinical deterioration, dobutamine perfusion at inotropic doses was started. After several days of treatment, the patient improved and dobutamine was withdrawn and beta-blockers, ARAII and eplerenone were restarted. As a complication during admission, the patient had an ischaemic stroke despite the anticoagulation already started. Fibrinolysis was ruled out as the patient was anticoagulated and thrombectomy was ruled out as the territory was small and with progressive clinical improvement. On discharge the patient was anticoagulated with dabigatran 110 mg/12h for 1 month, after which it was increased to 150 mg/12h as recommended by haematology. He will continue to be monitored in the heart failure unit and neurology consultation.

DIAGNOSIS
Debut heart failure. Non-compaction cardiomyopathy with biventricular dysfunction. Ischaemic cerebral vascular accident.
