HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
63-year-old independent woman with no cognitive impairment.
Cardiovascular risk factors: smoker, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia under pharmacological treatment with good control.
No previous cardiological history or other history of interest.
She consulted because, after receiving the news of the death of a relative, she began with generalised malaise associated with abnormal facial movements and slurred speech with difficulty in producing long sentences, the episode lasting about 30 minutes. Hours later, the same symptoms reappeared and she was assessed by the emergency services who referred her to our centre.

Physical examination showed a good level of consciousness, oriented in the three spheres, no meningeal signs. Language not very fluent due to nominative difficulties.
She understands and repeats correctly. Normal cranial nerves. Normal campimetry.
Facial centred with the rest of the lower pairs normal. Normal long motor, sensory and cerebellar pathways. Skin-plantar reflexes ambiguous.
CYC: PVY normal, carotid pulses normal AP: MVC AC: normal. Abdomen normal. Extremities: Normal pulses, no oedema.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests on admission: biochemistry: glucose 87mg/dl, urea 46 mg/dl, creatinine 0.86 mg/dl, sodium 143 mmol/l, potassium 3.8 mmol/l, CRP 1.2mg/dl.
Coagulation: PT 87 %, aPTT 1.23 FBN 580mg/dl, INR 1.09.
Haemogram: leucocytes 6.99*103 (normal formula), HB 14.2g/dl, 252,000 platelets.
ECG: sinus rhythm at 56 bpm, without repolarisation alterations.
Cranial CT scan without contrast, urgent: left fronto-opercular hypodense lesion also affecting the anterior region of the insular cortex, with loss of corticosubcortical differentiation compatible with subacute ischaemic lesion.
There is no significant mass effect on adjacent structures.
In the rest of the parenchyma, no intra- or extra-axial haemorrhages or other ischaemic lesions are identified. Morphology of sulci and ventricles normal for the patient's age. Centred midline. Posterior cranial fossa structures without apparent alterations. No bony lesions were observed. Findings: subacute ischaemic lesion in the anterior superficial territory of the left MCA.
Control cranial CT scan at 72 h: appearance of a focus of confluent petechial microhaemorrhage, of nodular morphology and approximately 9 mm in diameter, inside the known ischaemic or subacute frontal and left insular lesion. The latter has slightly increased in size with respect to the previous study, with greater involvement of the left frontal subcortical white matter at the level of the corona radiata. There is no significant mass effect on the surrounding parenchyma, the midline ventricular system. Pineal cystic lesion approximately 9 mm in diameter and with peripheral gross calcification, non-specific and unchanged. The rest of the study showed no significant alterations or changes with respect to the previous one. Conclusions: appearance of a focus of confluent petechial microhaemorrhage, without mass effect, within the lesion of subacute ischaemic profile of the known left MCA territory.
Transthoracic echocardiogram 4 days after admission (Video 1 and 2): Normal sized LV with mild concentric hypertrophy. Preserved LVEF. Prolonged relaxation.
RV of normal size and function. Left atrium slightly dilated.
Mass in the left atrium dependent on the interatrial septum, heterogeneous echogenic density, deflected limits, which prolapses into the ventricle through the mitral valve not generating significant gradient but mild-moderate mitral insufficiency. Impression of myxoma. Normofunctioning aortic valve. Mitral valve with insufficiency generated by prolapse of the atrial mass. Non-dilated IVC. No pericardial effusion.

EVOLUTION
A 63-year-old woman attended the emergency department with clinical neurological deficit. An urgent cranial CT scan was performed, showing a subacute ischaemic lesion in the anterior superficial territory of the left MCA. The patient was admitted to the Stroke Unit for routine management. She progressed favourably with complete recovery of the neurological deficit. After 72 hours, a repeat CT scan showed a focus of confluent petechial microhaemorrhage, without mass effect, within the lesion with a known subacute ischaemic profile of the left MCA territory. The echocardiogram showed a mass in the left atrium, dependent on the interatrial septum, with deflected limits, which prolapses through the mitral valve into the left ventricle, causing mild-moderate mitral insufficiency. Given these findings, the case was re-evaluated jointly with the Cardiology, Neurology and Cardiac Surgery Departments; the patient presented a significant surgical risk as a result of the recent stroke with minor haemorrhagic transformation; however, given the characteristics and behaviour of the tumour, with repeated embolisms and given the risk of other complications, it was decided to perform urgent surgery that same day. The atrial mass was excised with resection of the fossa ovalis and reconstruction with a pericardial patch. The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative period and was discharged from hospital.
The pathological anatomy of the specimen confirmed the diagnosis of myxoma.


DIAGNOSIS
Left frontal ischaemic stroke.
Confluent petechial microhaemorrhage inside the ischaemic profile lesion.
Left atrial myxoma.
