History, current illness and physical examination
Personal history: 54-year-old male. No known drug allergies. AHT with good control, dyslipidaemic and active smoker 1.5 packs/day. Ex-drinker. Hyperuricaemia. Chronic bronchitis type COPD. Under cardiology follow-up for moderate double aortic lesion and mild pulmonary hypertension. Occupation: waiter.

Present illness: he came to the emergency department with progressive dyspnoea of one month's duration. Initial evaluation showed narrow QRS tachycardia at 144 bpm with irregular RR that reverted to sinus rhythm after administration of verapamil and amiodarone.
During observation, the patient presented haemodynamic deterioration, with arterial hypotension, poor perfusion, profuse sweating and volumetric resuscitation was started, a femoral line was cannulated and nor-adrenaline perfusion was started. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, showing biventricular dilatation with severe dysfunction without segmental disorders, moderate mitral insufficiency, moderate double aortic lesion and moderate-severe tricuspid insufficiency.
The patient was admitted to the ICU and cardiogenic shock persisted. Chest CT was requested and pulmonary thromboembolism was ruled out. The patient was monitored and cardiogenic shock pattern with IC 1.5 was observed, so dobutamine, noradrenaline and levosimendan were started and the haemodynamic situation recovered and improved progressively, and could be withdrawn in 48 hours. During his stay in the ICU, a new regulated transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, showing an improvement in LVEF (50-55% subjective), moderate functional mitral regurgitation and double aortic lesion with severe aortic regurgitation. It was decided to perform a TEE and the existence of severe aortic insufficiency was confirmed, with two jets, one due to prolapse of the right coronary leaflet, directed towards the anterior mitral leaflet and the other appears to be caused by a possible perforation of the base of the right coronary leaflet.

Physical examination: poor general condition. Skin coldness. Profuse sweating. Jugular ingurgitation. ACR: arrhythmic tones at 130 bpm. Systolic-diastolic murmur III/VI predominantly in aortic focus. MVC with crackles up to midfields in both lung fields.

Complementary tests
CBC: glucose 97, creatinine 0.65, potassium 4.7, GGT 44, CT 145, LDL 88. Hb 46.1. Htco 47. ʟʟ Blood cultures: negative.
ECG: atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response at 130 bpm.
Thoracic CT scan: a study was performed with intravenous contrast administration from the bases to the apex of the lungs. Adequate opacification of the pulmonary arterial tree bilaterally, without identifying intravascular repletion defects suggestive of PTE. No evidence of mediastinal or axillary adenopathy of pathological size or other notable abnormalities in the mediastinum. Lung parenchyma was normal bilaterally, without nodular images or alterations of the parenchymal architecture. Contrast reflux to the suprahepatic veins in the context of heart failure. High abdominal sections show perihepatic free fluid lengue and relative hypertrophy of the left hepatic lobe, which may be secondary to chronic liver disease. Conclusion: PTE is ruled out.
TT echocardiogram: moderately-severely dilated left ventricle, with mild concentric hypertrophy and global systolic function at low limits of normality (monoplane Simpson LVEF 49%, subjective 50-55%, Teicholz 54%). LA dilated (34 cm2). RV neither dilated nor hypertrophic with preserved global systolic function. Dilated RA. Mitral valve with non thickened leaflets, without significant morphological alterations, preserved opening, appreciating MI directed towards the posterolateral wall of LA which appears to be moderately functional. There are no images suggestive of endocarditis at the mitral valve level. Tricuspid aortic valve, fibrosclerosed, with severe thickening of the right coronary leaflet, which presents a hyperechogenic nodular image on which sits a less echodense and flapping image suggestive of endocarditis wart. Prolapse of the right coronary leaflet can be seen, causing a very eccentric AoI, which appears to be severe. The apical projection shows two regurgitation jets, one directed towards the anterior mitral leaflet caused by the prolapse of the right coronary leaflet and the other directed towards the ventricular septum/cavity. Slightly restricted opening with mean AoTG of 22 mmHg, AVAo per EC of 1.99 cm2. Mild TR allowing estimation of PSAP of 29 mmHg + PAD (dilated IVC with inspiratory collapse of approximately 50%). No pulmonary valvulopathy was observed. Normal ascending aorta. Septum intact. No pericardial effusion.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: severe AoI was observed, best visualised in the mid-oesophageal projection at 120o, conditioned by the existence of 2 regurgitation jets that occupy almost all of the LVOT. One of them originates from prolapse of the right coronary leaflet, directed towards the anterior mitral leaflet. The other appears to be caused by a possible perforation of the base of the right coronary leaflet. Grade III MR is seen, conditioned by a scarce coaptation of mitral leaflets of functional origin, reaching the atrial roof with a 6 mm vena contracta. There were no images suggestive of endocarditis on the mitral valve. The atrial appendage is free of thrombus. The rest is compatible with the TTE study.
Conclusion: study suggestive of endocarditis on the aortic valve, severe AoI, mild AoE. Grade III MI. LVEF in low limits of normality.

Clinical evolution
The patient was referred to the cardiac surgery unit and underwent successful surgery with implantation of mitral and aortic metallic prosthesis. The native mitral and aortic valves were removed and endocardial involvement by Coxiella burnetii was diagnosed. During follow-up, the patient presented multiple falls in atrial flutter with 2 CVE and recurrence, as well as severe ventricular dysfunction and multiple episodes of NSVT on Holter. He was referred to the arrhythmia unit and CTI ablation was performed and a CRT+ADI pacemaker was implanted, with improvement in LVEF during follow-up, and he is currently in GF I-II.

Diagnosis
Cardiogenic shock in the context of tachycardiomyopathy due to rapid atrial fibrillation of uncertain onset and treatment with verapamil.
Mitro-aortic endocarditis due to Coxiella burnetii.
Implantation of metallic mitral and aortic prostheses.
Successful CTI ablation. Implantation of ICD + CRT with improvement of LVEF.
