HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
No known drug allergies.
No DM, DLP or AHT.
Active smoker.
Chronic gastritis.
Surgical interventions: bilateral breast prosthesis.
Family history: mother died suddenly at the age of 48 and sister died at the age of 50 (AMI?). Second-degree relatives with Chagas disease.
usual treatment: pantoprazole.

Current disease
The patient was a 45-year-old woman from Brazil who presented with two episodes of oppressive central thoracic pain radiating towards the MSI, the first of which was self-limiting and lasted 5-10 minutes and the second persistent over time, accompanied by a sensation of dizziness, for which she went to the emergency department of a regional hospital. The patient reported self-limited palpitations the previous night, for which reason she did not consult the emergency department. In view of these symptoms, an electrocardiogram was performed showing a regular tachycardia with a wide QRS at 230 bpm which subsided after administration of flecainide 200 mg by mouth and went into sinus rhythm 20 minutes after treatment, with a 1st degree BAV and an ST descent of up to 2 mm with a horizontal slope in V4-V6.
Examination revealed: poor general condition with tachypnoea and tachycardia, with a large component of anxiety. Blood pressure 113/77 mmHg. O2 Sat 100%. Cardiopulmonary auscultation without findings, except tachycardia. No oedema in the lower limbs. During her stay in the ED, she remained asymptomatic with no new episodes of tachycardia, normalisation of the ST segment and a slight increase in TnI (0.019 to 0.14) with normal CPK.
He was admitted to the ICU of a regional hospital for monitoring and treatment. During her stay in the ICU, the patient remained asymptomatic and haemodynamically stable, with no new episodes of tachycardia, no changes in the electrocardiogram, no clinical signs of heart failure and normalisation of TnI.
An echocardiogram was performed with an LVEF of 55% with no alterations in contractility and mild mitral insufficiency. From there, the case was discussed with the Arrhythmia Unit and an electrophysiological study was requested in which, after isoproterenol perfusion, regular tachycardia with wide QRS was induced, compatible with ventricular tachycardia of basal and upper left ventricular origin. In view of SMVT in a patient with a family history of sudden death, it was decided to admit him to our hospital ward to complete the study and assess treatment (pharmacological vs. ablation). Treatment was started with beta-blockers.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG (regional hospital emergency department): regular tachycardia with wide QRS (180 ms) with morphology of complete right bundle branch block (positive V1) and lower frontal plane axis, concordant in precodials and atrioventricular dissociation compatible with ventricular tachycardia of basal anterolateral origin of the left ventricle.
ECG (after TVMS): sinus rhythm at 65 bpm, PR 220 ms (BAV 1st degree), normal axis (0o), narrow QRS, ST descent 2 mm maximum in V4-V6 with negative T in II, III and aVF. CBC (ED regional hospital): glucose 188 mg/dl, urea 26 mg/dl, creatinine 0.88 mg/dl, Na 140 mEq/l, K 4.2 mEq/l, Ca 8.4 mg7dl, CRP <0.5 mg/dl, NT proBNP 322 ng/l, other biochemistry normal. Haemoglobin 13.8 g/dl, haematocrit 41.1%, leukocytes 10400 ui (neutrophils 67%, lymphocytes 27%), platelets 385000 ui. Coagulation normal.
Chest X-ray: normal CTI with no infiltrates or signs of pleural effusion.
Echocardiography: non-dilated left ventricle with moderate to severe hypertrophy at septal level with preserved global LVEF (65%) with thinning and akinesia at lower basal segments and to a lesser extent inferolateral basal and posterior septal basal segments.
Atria not dilated. Non-dilated right ventricle with preserved RVEF. Aortic root of normal dimensions. Normal mitral valve with trival mitral regurgitation jet. Trivalve aortic valve of normal morphology and jet of mild aortic insufficiency. Mild tricuspid regurgitation with normal PSAP. No pericardial effusion. Diastolic pattern compatible with type I relaxation disorder.
Conclusion: aneurysm in the region of the basal inferior-septal, basal inferior and basal lateral-inferior segments with preserved LVEF. Cardiac MRI: mild left ventricular dysfunction (LVEF 50%) with akinesia of basal inferior and inferolateral segments and late subendocardial enhancement at this level. Right ventricle of normal morphology and function.
Coronary angiography: radial approach. Epicardial coronary arteries without lesions. Ventriculography shows a posterobasal aneurysm of the left ventricle and a small apical aneurysm. Preserved LVEF.
Electrophysiological study: basal conduction intervals are normal. No ventricular pre-excitation or double nodal pathway. Pacing manoeuvres from CS and from the basal area of the RV do not induce tachycardia. Under isoproterenol perfusion (3 mcg/min), a tachycardia equal to the clinically documented tachycardia that meets the criteria of ventricular origin is spontaneously induced with ventricular extrasystoles. From the morphology of the complexes, it originates in the basal and superior zone of the LV (mitroaortic continuity, aortic semilunar, superior zone of the mitral annulus). Tachycardia is induced on several occasions and is suppressed by ventricular overstimulation.
Blood and urine cultures: negative. Serology: HBV, HCV and HIV negative. Anti-Trypanosoma cruzi serology: positive.

EVOLUTION
During her stay on the ward and while the TVMS study was being completed, the patient presented rapid palpitations with general malaise and dizziness, and the monitor showed a wide QRS tachycardia similar to the one described, which spontaneously reverted to sinus rhythm. The patient was transferred to the coronary unit. After performing cardiac MRI and subsequent coronary angiography, which ruled out ischaemic origin in the presence of structural heart disease in the echocardiography (posterobasal aneurysm and small apical aneurysm) with the patient's personal history, everything led to suspect possible Chagas disease, so serology for Trypanosoma cruzi was requested, with positive results. A referral was made to the Infectious Diseases Unit, which considered the diagnosis of Chagas disease to be highly probable and requested serology and PCR for confirmation. Treatment with benznidazole was started. Due to clinical symptoms of gastro-oesophageal reflux and epigastric discomfort, an oesophago-gastro-duodenal transit was requested, which was negative. On the other hand, a new electrophysiological study was performed in order to try to ablate SMVT. However, no VT was induced during the procedure despite high doses of isoproterenol. Radiofrequency applications were performed in the anterolateral area of the mitral annulus without subsequent complications. After testing positive for Chagas disease, it was decided to implant a self-implantable defibrillator (ICD). Once the patient's condition had stabilised, it was decided to discharge her home to continue monitoring her at the ECCC. There was no impact on her outpatient evolution.

DIAGNOSIS
Poorly tolerated sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia secondary to probable cardiomyopathy due to Chagas disease. Implantation of a single-chamber ICD as secondary prevention.
