HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 49 years old. Secondary school teacher in a public secondary school Stress at work, regular exercise (spinning and racket sports) Non-smoker Dyslipidaemia under dietary treatment No other relevant history He was attended by transport and advanced life support personnel (mobile ICU) for having presented dizziness followed by chest pain with oppressive characteristics, which started after finishing a moderate exercise session (paddle tennis class in a sports centre).

Medical staff observed a minimal rise in the ST segment of the non-specific electrocardiogram (ECG), and he was transferred to his referral centre. Blood pressure 120/85 mmHg. 65 bpm. Height 184 cm, weight 108 kg. BMI: 31.9 kg/m2. BP 125 cm. Pulse oximetry saturation of 96% with room air. Eupneic, no carotid murmurs, pulmonary ventilation is normal, heart sounds are rhythmic, 68 bpm, 4th apical sound, no murmurs are auscultated. Pulses are permeable and symmetrical in all 4 extremities. No oedema.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Initial ECG in the ED: precordial pain, no significant alterations. The rhythm is sinus at 65 bpm and no areas of ischaemia or necrosis are observed. No hypertrophy, ST segment or T wave alterations. Myocardial damage markers were determined, with typical enzyme curve, peak CPK-MB of 98 U/L and ultrasensitive troponin T of 215 ng/L.
He presented with an episode of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the acute phase lasting a few minutes and spontaneous remission. He was admitted to the intensive care unit. Doppler echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle, with abundant trabeculae and sinusoids in apical and lateral segments and preserved global systolic function. Slight lateroapical hypokinesia.
Study suggestive of non-compacted left ventricle. LVEF 54%. More than three trabeculae, protruding from the left ventricular wall, apical to the papillary muscles. Intertrabecular spaces perfused from the ventricular cavity (with colour Doppler). Ratio >2 between uncompacted layer and compacted layer in the segment with greater hypertrabeculation in end-systole. Cardioresonance: inferolateral and mid and apical lateral akinesia. Increased trabeculation in lateral and medial segments and apical segments, with suspicion of non-compacted myocardium. The distance between the epicardial surface to the lowest part of the trabeculae and the distance from the epicardial surface to the peak of the trabeculae is ≤0.5.
Diagnostic coronary angiography and coronary intervention: 1-vessel disease: circumflex-2a obtuse marginal. Balloon PCI and implantation of 2 drug-eluting stents was performed. A neuromuscular examination was performed, which was normal, and the creatine phosphokinase (CPK) enzyme elevation decreased gradually until it normalised. 48 hours later, he was admitted to the cardiology ward for treatment with acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg/24h, clopidrogel 75 mg/24h, rosuvastatin 20 mg/d, bisoprolol 2.5 mg/d.
Once on the ward, new laboratory tests were performed: Biochemistry: glycaemia 297 mg/dl, total cholesterol 208 mg/dl, HDL 36 mg/dl, LDL 129 mg/dl, triglycerides 215 mg/dl, urea 67 mg/L, creatinine 1.2 mg/dl, creatinine clearance 64 ml/min/1.73 m2. Basal fasting blood glucose and HbA1C were determined, which showed a value of 8.5%, and the patient was diagnosed with type II DM.

EVOLUTION
After an adequate clinical evolution, he was discharged from hospital on the 5th day of the acute event, being referred to the cardiac rehabilitation unit within 2 weeks. A welcome interview is carried out and informed consent is requested, and the patient signs the document. It is necessary to stratify the risk of cardiovascular events in the short and medium term. For this purpose, a functional assessment was carried out by means of ergometry prior to inclusion in the programme, in this case the Bruce protocol, exercise time on a treadmill of 6 minutes, work of 7 METs, limited by muscular exhaustion. Maximum HR: 120 l/m, reached 70% of maximum heart rate at age, clinical and electrical negative, basal BP 120/80 mmHg, at maximum effort 160/70. Normal recovery, no arrhythmias.

DIAGNOSIS
NSTEACS: Small non-q AMI.
Non-compaction cardiomyopathy with left ventricular systolic function (LVEF) at the lower limit of normal.
1-vessel coronary artery disease: 2nd obtuse marginal artery.
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and implantation of two drug-eluting stents.
Mixed dyslipidaemia.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) type II.
Obesity grade I.
