HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
The patient is an 89-year-old woman with the following history: CVRF: HBP. DM-2 (on treatment with ADO). Dyslipidaemia. Severe degenerative aortic stenosis under follow-up in outpatient cardiology consultations. Other: left ureteral lithiasis. Polyarthrosis.

Usual treatment: enalapril/HCTZ, vildagliptin, ASA, oral iron, pantoprazole, tamsulosin. In June 2014, he was admitted to another centre for heart failure. With a history of severe AS, it was decided to replace the aortic valve with a percutaneous transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVI), via the transfemoral route. The procedure was uneventful, with only one episode of paroxysmal AF with rapid ventricular response before implantation, which resolved spontaneously. Withdrawal of the transient PM 24 hours after implantation, remaining at all times in sinus rhythm and normal PR, with a previously known LBBB. On 06/09/14 she consulted her health centre for a sore throat and fever of up to 38.5 °C. Her GP diagnosed her with pharyngotonsillitis and started treatment with augmentin 875/125 mg vo/8h.
The following day she consulted the emergency department of our centre because, in addition to the fever, she presented deviation of the corner of her mouth and dysarthria, and a non-contrast cranial CT scan was performed, the findings of which are described in the section on complementary tests. She was discharged with a diagnosis of transient ischaemic attack. Three days later, on 10/09/14, she returned to the emergency department because she continued to have fever at home. Although at the time of consultation she did not have a fever (36.5°C), a blood culture was taken and a chest X-ray was performed without conclusive findings. He was discharged with a diagnosis of non-condensing respiratory infection and levofloxacin 500 mg vo/12 h was added to the treatment he was already receiving with augmentin. Seven days later, on 17/09/14, he consulted the emergency department for the third time because the fever persisted. A new chest X-ray was performed, similar to the previous one, and the blood culture from the previous week was reviewed, which was "contaminated". Finally, it was decided to admit him to Internal Medicine to study the febrile syndrome.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG at discharge after TAVI (June 2014, another centre): sinus rhythm at 70 bpm. PR 130 ms. LBBB (already known). Cranial CT s/c (07/09/14, ER): severe ischaemic microangiopathy. Sequela of chronic ischaemic infarction of the left PCA territory. Chronic left lenticular lacunar lacunar infarction. Moderate corticosubcortical atrophy. Portable chest X-ray (10/09/14, ED): poor quality, rotated. No clear images of pneumonic condensation. Blood culture (10/09/14, ED): contaminated sample.

EVOLUTION
On admission to Internal Medicine: auscultation described as "no audible murmurs, valve noise is heard". ECG: sinus rhythm and known LBBB. Augmentin + levofloxacin is maintained. We requested: culture and Gram of sputum and a TTE ordered due to the history of recent TAVI implantation. Nothing remarkable in the analysis except creatinine 1.45, which was attributed to pre-renal origin due to lack of water supply. In the TTE, the aortic prosthesis with maximum velocity 2.52 m/s, mean gradient 12 mmHg and jet of mild insufficiency. Preserved LVEF. Moderate TR. Severe PAH (PAPS 63 mmHg).
Twenty-four hours after admission to the ward, the patient began to present "shivering" and high fever (39°C), and the control ECG showed the presence of AF with rapid ventricular response, so she was started on treatment with digoxin. The blood test showed for the first time a leukocytosis of 21,270 with left deviation (90% PMN). Serial analyses were requested with CRP which was found to be elevated (>100) and serial blood cultures.... The antibiotic treatment prescribed until then was changed to piperacillin-tazobactam iv adjusted to renal function. Forty-eight hours after admission, he presented with sudden signs of desaturation (SatO2 80%) which required oxygen therapy with VMK. Audible wheezing practically on entering the room. An urgent ECG was performed which showed the presence of a complete AVB with an escape HR (wide QRS) at 30 bpm, and the Cardiology ward was notified. Although the main suspicion in this patient was already established as complicated infective endocarditis, it was decided to implant an urgent transient pacemaker to stabilise the clinical situation. After implantation via the right subclavian vein, which passed without incident, the patient was transferred to the Cardiology Intermediate Care Unit of our department, and antibiotic treatment was associated with daptomycin 600 mg iv/24 h and the digoxin she was taking was withdrawn (digoxinaemia was then 2 ng/mL). A new TTE + TEE was also requested due to the very high suspicion of infective endocarditis. On 23/09/14, the results of the serial blood cultures from the Internal Medicine ward came back: methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis (+) in 3 of 4 samples. TTE + TEE was performed with the following findings/summary: DTDVI 32 mm. Basal septal hypertrophy of 20 mm. Normal EF. Rest of cavities normal. Severe extensive calcification of the mitral annulus with normal distal leaflet mobility and no regurgitation.
TAVI with periprosthetic eccentric regurgitation with peak gradient of 50 mmHg and mean of 30 mmHg. There is mobile vegetation that appears to be inserted below the tricuspid septal leaflet and some aortic periannular thickening adjacent to the tricuspid valve in the right anterior region of the same, compatible with periannular abscess-pseudoaneurysm, with microperforation towards the RA. Mild TR with a gradient of 46 mm and PAPS of 50 mmHg. In TEE: TAVI with thin prosthetic veils and area by planimetry around 1 cm2. Small prosthetic ring (18 mm). Filiform vegetation is observed in the right coronary leaflet. Periprosthetic regurgitation in the anterior region of the ring, which appears to be small.
In the following days, the BAV resolved completely, becoming first-degree BAV (PR 200 ms). Antibiotic treatment with daptomycin was continued. After discussing the patient in a medical-surgical session, valve intervention was ruled out due to the patient's age and high morbidity and mortality. After confirming that blood cultures were negative, it was decided to implant a definitive MP, the scheduled date of which had to be postponed several times due to recurrence of fever, development of local infection of the transient MP (inflammatory signs in the venipuncture area), nosocomial pneumonia and significant bicytopenia (Hb 8.5 and platelets 45,000, the origin of which was not completely clarified and which led to a reduction in the doses of daptomycin). The day before rescheduling for definitive MP implantation, the patient suffered a sudden disconnection from the environment and a deterioration in her level of consciousness. An urgent cranial CT scan was performed, showing ischaemic embolic stroke (septic embolism as the first possibility) of the left middle cerebral artery. Under these conditions, it was decided to limit therapeutic effort, withdraw the transitional MP and transfer him to the Palliative Care Unit, where he continued with fever and was discharged on 10/10/14.

DIAGNOSIS
Late (> 2 months) infective prosthetic endocarditis on percutaneously implanted biological aortic prosthesis (TAVI) due to S. epidermidis MR, complicated by: Periannular abscess/pseudoaneurysm with microperforation into the right atrium; development of symptomatic complete atrioventricular block requiring urgent pacing with transient pacemaker, initially resolved; embolic ischaemic stroke (septic embolism) of the middle cerebral artery; progressive deterioration of the level of consciousness and exitus in the context of the previous point.
Possible nosocomial pneumonia of unclear aetiology.
Local infection of the transient pacemaker (venipuncture area), without having been able to rule out associated endocarditis on the ventricular electrode.
