Background
Sister with congenital heart disease: ventricular septal defect
No medical or surgical history of interest
No usual treatment
No known drug allergies

Current illness
A 21-year-old male patient came to the emergency department with a sensation of dizziness accompanied by transitory paraesthesia in the left arm, without loss of consciousness or trauma. He reported no chest pain, dyspnoea, palpitations or syncope and was discharged from the emergency department. Previously completely normal life, with intense sport. He is currently a football referee.

Two weeks later he presented with dizziness of a few minutes' duration with chest pain while playing sport with subsequent abnormal sensations consisting of general malaise and slight dizziness for at least an hour, relieved by diazepam.

Physical examination
Normal jugular venous pressure. Carotid pulses full and symmetrical. No frémito or impulsive precordial beats.
Cardiorespiratory auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, without added pathological sounds. Rhythmic cardiac tones with holosystolic murmur II/VI in the lower left sternal border.
Abdomen: soft, depressible, non-painful, without megaliths.
Lower limbs: no oedema and preserved distal pulses.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index, normal cardiophrenic and costodiaphragmatic sinuses, no pleural effusion, no infiltrates or condensation. No alterations in bone or soft tissues were observed. Laboratory tests: all parameters were normal. Glucemia 89 mg/dL, urea 29 mg/dL, 0.89 mg/dL, sodium 144 mmol/L, potassium 4.1 mmol/L, chlorine 108 mmol/L. Leukocytes 10130 uL with 58.4% neutrophils. Haemoglobin 17.4 g/dL with MCV 89.4 fl, platelets 223000Ul. Cardiac markers (troponin). 0.0 in two determinations.

ECG: sinus rhythm at 79lpm with PR 180 ms. Image of BCRDHH, IAH and biauricular growth.

Transthoracic echocardiography: situs solitus. Atrioventricular and ventricular arterial concordance. Atrioventricular septal defect: AV valves at the same level. Spontaneously closed ventricular septal defect with closing aneurysm. Wide defect of the inflow septum and ostium secundum. Left right shunt. Tabication in the wall of the left atrium cor triatriatum type, delimiting a posterior cavity where the pulmonary veins drain and communicating with a restrictive orifice with the left atrium adjacent to the mitral valve. The four pulmonary veins cannot be precisely located. Moderately dilated right ventricle (52 mm basal and 46 mm in the mid region measured in apical 4-chamber projection). Good longitudinal displacement, TAPSE of 22 m. Left ventricle of normal diameters, walls and ejection fraction (parasternal projection, long axis: end-diastolic diameter 44 mm, end-systolic diameter 23 mm, basal septum thickness 10 mm, posterior wall thickness 8 mm). Left atrium not dilated. Left atrial valve with elongated leaflets. Good opening. Slight central regurgitation. Right AV valve with leaflet coaptation defect. Moderate central insufficiency. AD-VD gradient of 32 mmHg. Inferior vena cava not dilated (19mm) with preserved inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion. Aortic sag without abnormalities. Estimated PSAP between 40-45 mmHg.

Transesophageal echocardiography: wide interatrial septal defect in the region of ostium primum plus part of ostium secundum. Membrane septum in the upper portion of the left atrium. Appears to have two entry points: one posterior approximately 17x10 mm, with accelerated flow through it and another anterolateral in relation to the entrance of the left atrial appendage and through the entrance region of the left atrial appendage into the inflow tract and mitral valve. Apparent drainage of the four pulmonary veins into this posterior chamber.

EVOLUTION
Currently asymptomatic, accepted for cardiovascular surgery.

DIAGNOSIS
Cor triatriatum
Partial atrioventricular defect (ASD ostium primum type)
