70-year-old male. History of pulmonary tuberculosis with residual left fibrothorax, several episodes of severe haemoptysis years earlier. Pulmonary auscultation showed generalised hypophonesis, greater in the left hemithorax and scattered rhonchi. No oedema.

History, current illness and physical examination
70-year-old male. CVRF: Ex-smoker of 50 packs per year, hypercholesterolemia. Mild COPD. Ischaemic stroke in 2011. Paroxysmal AF not anticoagulated due to risk of bleeding.
History of pulmonary tuberculosis 30 years ago, with residual left fibrothorax. Several episodes of severe haemoptysis years ago, some with haemodynamic instability that required admission to the ICU. During one of them, during a thoracic CT scan, two heterotopic bronchial arteries were observed, originating in the left subclavian artery and draining into multiple tortuous vessels associated with an area of saccular bronchiectasis located in the left lower pulmonary lobe.
Embolisation was then performed using microcoils and embo-spheres of these aberrant arteries, despite which episodes of haemoptysis persisted, so pulmonary lobectomy was decided as the best therapeutic option for the patient.

Physical examination: BP 140/75, PVY normal. Cardiac auscultation rhythmic, without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation showed generalised hypophonesis, greater in the left hemithorax and scattered rhonchi. No oedema.

Complementary tests
Prior to surgery, a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, which showed a left ventricle of normal size and function, a slightly dilated right ventricle with good function, mild biauricular dilatation, mild MR and mild TR with moderate-severe pulmonary hypertension. A haemodynamic study and coronary angiography were requested to our hospital for surgical evaluation of the patient. Cardiac catheterisation showed moderate pulmonary hypertension with normal PCP, but coronary angiography revealed a large coronary-bronchial fistula originating in the circumflex artery and draining into multiple tortuous vessels located in the left lower pulmonary lobe.

Clinical course
With the diagnostic suspicion that the coronary-bronchial fistula could be the cause of the patient's current episodes of haemoptysis, it was successfully embolised using a 6F AL 2 guide catheter (Cordis LBT, NJ, USA) and an angioplasty guide (Runthrough Hipercoat, Terumo Europe, Netherlands) to introduce a microcatheter (Progreat, Terumo Europe, Netherlands) to the most distal area of the fistula and finally release three microcoils (Cook Medical) sequentially, until angiographically demonstrating flow abolition. Surgery was postponed until clinical evolution was observed. One year after the procedure the patient remains asymptomatic, with no new episodes of haemoptysis.

Diagnosis
Recurrent haemoptysis secondary to large coronary-bronchial fistula. Successful percutaneous embolisation.
