HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

PERSONAL HISTORY
No known drug allergies.
No known cardiovascular risk factors.
No toxic habits.
Depressive syndrome.
Admitted in 2016 to another hospital for situational syncope and chest pain. Discharged with a diagnosis of acute myocarditis.
Usual treatment: fluoxetine 20 mg every 12 hours.

PRESENT ILLNESS
A 32-year-old male with the previously described personal history was brought to the emergency department of our hospital for fainting with loss of consciousness not witnessed, coinciding with defecation, and preceded by dizziness and chest pain that continued after regaining consciousness. The patient defines the chest pain as oppressive, radiating to the throat and without associated vegetative cortex, which has subsided spontaneously. He denies palpitations, no dyspnoea or other associated symptoms. The patient reports that the episode is similar to the one he presented in 2016 and that he had not presented any similar symptoms since then. He denies worsening of functional class and no other symptoms from a cardiological point of view. He regularly practises sport and has not presented any infectious symptoms in previous days.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Stable patient in good general condition. Eupneic at rest, tolerating decubitus. Afebrile and haemodynamically stable. Blood pressure (BP) 115/70 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 58 bpm. No congestive semiology. Cardiorespiratory auscultation with rhythmic tones, no murmurs.
Conservative vesicular murmur with no other superimposed noises. Lower limbs without oedema.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram (ECG) on admission: sinus bradycardia at 49 bpm, normal axis, normal PR, narrow QRS with tendency to ST-elevation < 1 mm in inferior aspect, V5-V6.
Chest X-ray: CTI in the upper limit of normality. Free costophrenic sinuses.
No evidence of pulmonary congestion. No image of pneumothorax, no consolidation.
CBC: glucose 77 mg/dl, peak creatinine 1.34 mg/dl (previous normal, at discharge normal), glucose and ions in normal range. Relative neutrophilia without leukocytosis.
Haemoglobin 16.2 g/dl. Platelets 218,000. Coagulation without alterations. TnTus 55 - 234 - 72.7 - 5.5 ng/l. CPK 127 - 136 - 121 mU/ml.
Lipid profile: total cholesterol 169 mg/dl, HDL 47 mg/dl, LDL 105 mg/dl, triglycerides 84 mg/dl. LDL/HDL 2.2.
Autoimmunity test negative.
Iron metabolism: sideremia 106.4 micrograms/dl, transferrin 253 mg/dl, transferrin saturation index 30%, ferritin 85 micrograms/litre.
Transthoracic echocardiography: left atrium of normal dimensions (AP 37 mm, volume 19 ml/m2). Normal mitral valve, with leaflets without organic involvement, no insufficiency. Left ventricle with slightly increased volumes (DTD 56 mm, DTDi 26 mm/m2, VTD 160 ml, VTDi 80 ml/m2, VTS 66 ml). EF 59% without segmental alterations of contractility. Normal myocardial thickness, with 8 mm septum and 8 mm posterior wall. Normal mitral filling pattern with E wave 69 cm/s and A wave 38 cm/s. Septal E" 7 cm/s and lateral E" 15.3 cm/s. Trivalve aortic valve, with anatomically normal leaflets, without insufficiency. Sinuses of Valsalva 36 mm. Right ventricle of normal dimensions and contractility. TAPSE 22 mm, tricuspid S" 12.7 cm/s. Trivial tricuspid insufficiency with Vmax 2m/s. Mild pulmonary insufficiency. Normal inferior vena cava with adequate inspiratory collapse. Systolic pulmonary artery pressure 19 mmHg. No pericardial effusion.
Coronary angio-CT: Agastson calcium score of 1 (no identifiable plaques). Coronary angiography from axial slices, multiplanar, curved and 3D reconstructions: left common trunk arising from the left coronary sinus, long, 21 mm long and without significant alterations. It bifurcates into the anterior descending artery (ADA) and circumflex artery (ACx). ADA without angiographically significant lesions, of good development and calibre, giving multiple diagonal branches of small calibre (up to 3 diagonal branches), all of them without lesions. ACx without angiographically significant alterations, which is of small calibre, but almost at its origin gives an Om1 branch of very good development and calibre, which has a normal proximal trajectory, but its entire middle and distal course follows an intramyocardial route presenting an "intramyocardial bridge of significant length" and which in systolic sections shows a decrease in its calibre and systolic compression phenomenon (coincides with the inferolateral side as it depends on the circumflex artery and the course of an OM artery). Right coronary artery (RCA) arising from the right coronary sinus without angiographically significant alterations. It gives two posterolateral branches, but does not clearly give the posterior descending branch or this is a very small branch. Right dominant pattern. Conclusion: OM1 of very good development and calibre, which has a normal proximal trajectory, but its entire middle and distal trajectory follows an intramyocardial course presenting an "intramyocardial bridge of significant length" and which in systolic sections presents a decrease in its calibre and a phenomenon of systolic compression. The trajectory has been estimated at 7.5-8 cm. The rest of the coronary arteries had no angiographically significant lesions, no anomalies in their trajectory or disposition.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
After documenting in enzyme serology in the emergency department, discrete enzyme mobilisation with ischaemia curve (peak TNT Us: 234 ng/l), it was decided to admit the patient to cardiology on suspicion of a new episode of myopericarditis given his history. During his admission, the patient evolved favourably, with no further chest pain and no other symptoms.
Given that the clinical picture was not characteristic of myopericarditis, due to its characteristics and duration, nor did he present compatible electrical alterations, with alterations on the underside more suggestive of ischaemic aetiology, as well as the behaviour of the cardiac ferment serum, with a very rapid rise and fall, again more characteristic of an ischaemic profile, it was decided to request an intermediate test to detect ischaemia during admission as a screening test for coronary artery disease. A coronary angio-CT scan was performed which revealed the existence of an intramyocardial tract of significant length in the OM1 branch and which in the systolic sections showed a decrease in its calibre and systolic compression phenomenon, with the rest of the coronary arteries being normal. Given the findings, it is considered that the picture of situational vagal syncope with associated hypotension and the presence of the long intramyocardial tract would explain the picture of transient ischaemia that led to admission. The patient also provided the report of the cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) performed in the previous admission in 2016, which described the presence of mild enhancement of predominantly subendocardial enhancement in the inferolateral wall, coinciding with the trajectory and could be explained by this same reason.
Given the good evolution, the patient was discharged with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg every 24 hours and amlodipine 5 mg every 12 hours. It is recommended to avoid high intensity exercise, especially isometric exercise (weight lifting). The patient is seen in an outpatient clinic 2 months later and remains asymptomatic.

DIAGNOSIS
Myocardial infarction with coronary arteries without obstructive lesions (MINOCA) secondary to significant intramyocardial trajectory of the obtuse marginal artery with systolic compression phenomenon.
