HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
We present the case of a 35-year-old woman with the following personal history: Family history: grandmother died at the age of 86 years due to acute myocardial infarction. Two paternal uncles with chronic ischaemic heart disease at 62 and 73 years of age respectively. Paternal aunt underwent aortic valve replacement at the age of 75. Cousin with congenital heart disease that he cannot specify. Father under follow-up for chest pain, with coronary angiography without lesions at 64 years of age. No known drug allergies. Cardiovascular risk factors: smoker of 5 cigarettes per day (3.8 packs per year). No hypertension, diabetes or dyslipidaemia. No previous cardiological history. No other medical or surgical illnesses. Baseline: sedentary lifestyle, but no symptoms related to physical activity. No chronic home treatment.  She consulted the emergency department for having presented that same afternoon, while seated, with syncope lasting about 20 seconds, with a sensation of palpitations and previous chest discomfort. After regaining consciousness, she reported chest discomfort, nausea, headache and general weakness. No sphincter release and complete spontaneous recovery.  In the anamnesis, she reported a very similar episode two or three weeks earlier, with the same characteristics, also at rest, while lying in bed, preceded by a vegetative cortex. Since then, she reports having noticed isolated, self-limited episodes of palpitations with sudden onset and end. She denies any other clinical manifestations in recent weeks, or the use of drugs or other substances.  On arrival at the hospital, the patient was asymptomatic and without neurological focality. Haemodynamically stable (blood pressure 120/75 mmHg, heart rate 70 bpm, baseline oxygen saturation 100%). Oriented and cooperative. No jugular ingurgitation. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen: soft, non-painful, no masses or megaliths. Lower limbs: no oedema, no signs of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC: creatinine 0.6 mg/dl, potassium 3.7 mEq/l, sodium 136 mEq/l, haemoglobin 11.8 g/dl, haematocrit 36%, leucocytes 9000/ml, platelets 159000/mm3. Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 65 bpm, normal axis, normal PR, narrow QRS, no repolarisation abnormalities. No serial ECG changes. Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. Free costophrenic sinuses. No infiltrates were observed. Normal mediastinum. Transthoracic echocardiography: left ventricle (LV) of normal size, thickness and systolic and diastolic function. Right ventricle (RV) of normal size and function. Left atrium (LA) and right atrium (RA) of normal size. No valvular heart disease. No indirect signs of PAH. Aortic root of normal size. No pericardial effusion. Cardiac MRI: ventricles with preserved morphology and systolic function. No oedema or myocardial fibrosis/necrosis. Telemetry (24 h): sinus rhythm. Ventricular extrasystoles (VE) of moderate monotopic density with very short coupling (in the ascending branch of the T) with episodes of doublets and 4 episodes of symptomatic polymorphic non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (PSVT) (palpitations and new syncopal symptoms). Electrophysiological study (EPS) and ablation with navigation system: baseline with moderate-density VS with LBBB morphology and transition in V5, with short coupling period. Three-dimensional reconstruction of the RV is performed with echo-intracardiac. The presence of a prominent moderator band is noteworthy. Activation mapping was performed with greater precocity at the level of the middle portion of the RV free wall, the anatomical point being located inside the cavity. Correlation mapping is also performed by topo-stimulation, with 95% of the morphology reproduced in the moderator band. Radiofrequency applications are performed at this point (40-45 W, 30 ml/min) with an irrigated catheter with a contact sensor, repeatedly inducing intense automatic activity. Subsequently, isoproterenol is administered without the appearance of extrasystoles after 30 minutes of waiting. Ventricular arrhythmia induction test was performed and was negative. Flecainide test: negative.


CLINICAL EVOLUTION
After evaluation of the patient by cardiology in the emergency department, despite the normality of the complementary tests (ECG, chest X-ray and laboratory tests), given the characteristics of the syncope that suggest a cardiogenic profile, it was decided to admit the patient for electrocardiographic monitoring and to complete the studies. On admission to the ward, the patient remained stable and with no new syncope. Echocardiography ruled out structural heart disease. During the first hours of monitoring, she had self-limited episodes of palpitations and a new syncopal episode, identical to the previous ones that led to her admission. Telemetry showed isolated low-density VE and episodes of very rapid NSTEVT symptomatic due to the R-over-T phenomenon due to a very short coupling period (240 ms). He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) and an EPS was programmed with a view to navigation-guided ablation of the focus of the VS with possible origin in the RV moderator band (LBBB morphology, transition in V5, left superior axis and QRS <150 ms). Radiofrequency ablation was performed in the moderator band (BM) guided by the CARTO navigation system, in addition to a flecainide test, which was negative. The morphological study was completed with cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) without alterations. Subsequently, he remained on the cardiology ward for telemetric monitoring without any sustained arrhythmias or clinical incidents. A 24-hour Holter recording 5 days after ablation showed a single isolated PVC in 24 hours. Given the success of the procedure and the absence of induction of ventricular arrhythmias, it was decided to implant a subcutaneous Holter prior to discharge. On review 8 months after ablation, an NSTEVT of 14 beats associated with palpitations was recorded, and implantation of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) was proposed, which was carried out without complications. In addition, a genetic study was completed which showed no mutations associated with channelopathies or sudden death. The patient was asymptomatic at subsequent check-ups and had no new events.

DIAGNOSIS
Repeated syncope in the context of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia induced by short-coupled ventricular extrasystoles originating in the right ventricular moderator band. Ablation of right ventricular moderator band extrasystoles. ICD implantation for secondary prevention. No structural heart disease.
