HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
We present a 72-year-old patient from Ukraine in an autonomous functional situation with no known drug allergies, with a personal history of hypertension, dyslipidaemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus and permanent atrial fibrillation. Under home treatment with ramipril 10 mg/24 h, bisoprolol 2.5 mg/24 h, metformin 850 mg/24 h, fenofibrate 145 mg/24 h and Sintrom 4 mg according to haematology guidelines. She came to the emergency department for repeated presyncopal and syncopal episodes of sudden onset, lasting seconds and with spontaneous recovery, with no apparent sequelae. She reported no prodromal symptoms, clear triggers, chest pain or palpitations. No dyspnoea or associated trauma. After observing a cervical asymmetry, he describes the recent appearance of a large "lump", with a progressive increase in size over the last month.

Physical examination: BP 126/57 mmHg, HR 92 bpm, T 36.4°C, baseline SatO2 96%. Patient conscious and oriented, normohydrated and normal colour. Mild tachypnoea. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: normoventilation. Abdomen soft, depressible, not painful on palpation, no masses or megaliths palpable. Peristalsis preserved. Negative jugular ingurgitation, negative hepatojugular reflux. No oedema in the lower extremities or signs of DVT. There was a voluminous, heterogeneous and indurated right laterocervical tumour with marked vascularisation, identifying vessels of increased calibre adhering to deep planes. ENT examination: no pharyngolaryngeal alterations, good glottic space, good cord mobility. No oedema in pharyngeal-laryngeal mucous membranes, permeable airway.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: atrial fibrillation with mean ventricular response at 74 bpm, without LVH criteria or repolarisation alterations. Chest X-ray: normal cardiac silhouette, hilar thickening with vascular appearance. Signs of chronic bronchopathy with pulmonary hyperinflation. No pleuroparenchymal alterations of acute evolution. Blood tests: cardiac markers: troponin I 0.01 ng/ml, myoglobin 74, NT-proBNP 750 pg/ml. Biochemistry: glycaemia 139 mg/dl, creatinine 0.97 mg/dl, Na 132 mEq/l, Cl 98 mEq/l, K 4.1 mEq/l, Ca 9.2 mg/dl. Mg 2 mEq/l. Haemogram: leucocytes 8,800/mL with 77 % neutrophils. Hb 11.9 g/dl, Ht 38.1 %, platelets 225,000/mcL. Coagulation: INR 1.5, TTP 29.9 sg, PT 16.9 sg, AP 61 %. Transthoracic echocardiogram: non-dilated LV with mild-moderate concentric LVH. Preserved LVEF. Slightly dilated atria. Mild calcification of the posterior mitral annulus with mild MR. VAo: appears trivalve with sclerosis of sigmoid arteries without generating restriction to its opening. Normal right chambers. No pericardial effusion. Monitoring in ED observation room: atrial fibrillation with mean ventricular response 70 bpm. Significant pauses of up to 5.5 seconds were observed. Neck-thoracic-abdomino-pelvic CT scan: right supraclavicular adenopathy 12 mm in diameter extending craniocaudally through the right carotid space from the jugular gulf to the jugulosubclavian bifurcation, also affecting the posteroinferior parotid region, the homolateral parapharyngeal and paravertebral space, as well as the sternocleidomastoid muscle and the lateral region of the right thyroid lobe. It protrudes into the right oropharyngeal lateral wall and envelops the jugulocarotid axis (there is contrast filling in the carotid and not in the jugular). Small bilateral axillary lymph nodes. Other smaller lymph nodes in the prevascular mediastinum on both sides of the midline. Pacemaker with electrode tip in the right ventricle. Global cardiomegaly. Coronary atheromatosis. Moderate pulmonary hyperinflation with signs of chronic bronchopneumopathy. No involvement of the pleural space. The rest of the examination was unaltered. No retroperitoneal or mesenteric adenopathy was observed, nor in the iliac or inguinal chains. Pathological anatomy of the biopsy of the cervical adenopathic conglomerate: high-grade, diffuse large-cell B-lymphoma. Activated immunophenotype (ABC): CD10-/BCL6+/MUM-1+. Cellularity: large blasts, vesicular nuclei, with one or more prominent nucleoli. Diffuse growth pattern. Immunohistochemistry: expresses CD79a; CD20 (irregular); BCL2; Bcl6 and MUM1. Negative for CD3; CD5; CD10; CD23; cyclin D1, CD30 and EBER. C-MYC positivity in 40-50% of the tumour population (pending FISH). Proliferative activity, assessed with KI67: 90-100%. Bone marrow aspirate: cytological diagnosis of DLBCL. Flow cytometry: no abnormal immunophenotype lymphocytes with a frequency of more than 1/8,000 cells were detected in this sample.

EVOLUTION
This is a patient with the aforementioned history who presented with a right cervical mass of three months' evolution with progressive growth causing dysphagia for solids with a weight loss of 20 kg. She came to the emergency department for repeated abrupt syncopal episodes and atrial fibrillation with significant pauses of up to 5-6 seconds duration was observed on monitoring. Controlled massage of the left carotid sinus reproduced the same symptomatology with a positive cardioinhibitory response with pauses of 4 sec. After discussing the case with Cardiology and Otorhinolaryngology on duty, beta-blocker treatment was suspended and the patient was admitted to the observation room for monitoring and ECG recording, in addition to performing an ultrasound-guided FNA with the aim of identifying the cervical mass to allow therapeutic guidance.
During monitoring, the patient suffered new syncopal and presyncopal episodes with bradycardia and significant pauses. FNAUS was performed with inconclusive results. In view of the finding of episodes of symptomatic bradycardia with significant pauses, the patient was diagnosed with peripheral neurocardiogenic syncope secondary to carotid compression by a large cervical mass pending filiation, and was admitted to Cardiology for implantation of a VVIR pacemaker to control the cardioinhibitory reflex. This procedure was carried out without complications, and its correct functioning was checked, being programmed in VVIR at 70/60 beats per minute. Subsequently, beta-blockers were restarted for AF at around 110 beats per minute. After a CT scan, biopsy and anatomopathological study of the cervical mass, Otorhinolaryngology concluded that it was a cervical adenopathic conglomerate with a diagnosis of high-grade diffuse large-cell B lymphoma. The patient was transferred to the haematology department to complete the study and start specific chemotherapy treatment according to the R-CHOP scheme (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, liposomal doxorubicin due to being a cardiac patient, vincristine and prednisone). During admission to haematology, episodes of dyspnoea and dysphagia with good response to corticoids and cytoreduction with cyclophosphamide. Rapid reduction of the cervical mass with symptomatic improvement and no new syncopal episodes. Given the clinical stability, discharge was decided to continue treatment on an outpatient basis.

DIAGNOSIS
Cardioinhibitory reflex vasovagal syncope secondary to compression of the carotid sinus by a large cervical mass. Large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, stage II-B, triple-Hit (BCL-2, BCL-6 and C-MYC).
