HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
Allergy to mites and pollen. No known drug allergies. Toxic habits: smoker of 1 pack a day. Mild alcoholic habit. No other intoxicants reported. No hypertension, no dyslipidaemia, no diabetes mellitus. No known heart disease. Bronchial asthma treated with inhalers, with 10 flare-ups related to mites and pollen in the last year treated with bronchodilators and auto-injectable adrenaline.
Surgical interventions: right knee meniscus 2 years ago. Usual treatment (poor compliance): terbutaline 1 inhalation in the mornings. Fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 184/22 every 24 hours. Family history: father with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) at the age of 52.

Present illness
A 21-year-old man, with the history described above, presented to his health centre with a sensation of chest tightness and sudden onset of dyspnoea. The report highlights: inspiratory stridor and BP 80/55. Intravenous methylprednisolone 80 mg and an ampoule of adrenaline 1 mg/ml intramuscular were administered, with improvement of the respiratory symptoms, but he presented with precordial pressure radiating to the neck. An ECG was performed showing an inferoposterolateral subepicardial lesion. Sublingual nitroglycerine was administered without clinical or electrocardiographic improvement, so the Emergency Services were notified and he was transferred to our hospital. On arrival (30 minutes after the onset of pain), he reported a slight improvement in pain, although ST-segment elevation persisted, so the patient was transferred to the haemodynamics room for urgent catheterisation, and coronary arteries were found to have no significant lesions. He was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit without pain, haemodynamically stable and with normalisation of the ECG.

Physical examination
BP 98/60, HR 95 bpm. SatO2 97%. Well perfused and hydrated. Eupneic. Head and neck: no jugular ingurgitation, no palpable adenopathies. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs or extratonos. Pulmonary auscultation: mild global hypoventilation and scattered expiratory wheezing. Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation. Renal fist-percussion negative. Lower extremities: no oedema, no evidence of DVT, symmetrical palpable pulses.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG health centre (with pain): sinus rhythm at 60 bpm, normal axis, subepicardial lesion up to 2-3 mm inferoposterolateral. Chest X-ray: cardiomediastinal silhouette, costophrenic sinuses, lung fields and bone skeleton studied without alterations. Analysis: Glucose 127. Urea 27. Creatinine 0.78. Sodium 138. Potassium 4.4. Chlorine 106. Osmolality (calculated) 296. PCR 0,04. Haemoglobin 14.4. Platelets 172. Leucocytes *11. Eosinophils 8 %. Cholesterol 158. Triglycerides 32. HDL-cholesterol 76. AST/GOT 23. ALT/GPT 11. Alkaline phosphatase 102. Initial tryptase 32.7 ug/L, at 2 hours 27.5 ug/L and 7 ug/L at 24 hours. Total IgE 635 kU/L and normal complement. Enzymes (on arrival): CPK 205, CK-MB mass 8.7. Troponin I 2520. Peak: CK 225. CK-MB mass 8.7. Troponin I 3407. Catheterisation: trunk: no significant stenosis. Anterior descending: no significant stenosis. Circumflex: no significant stenosis. Right coronary: dominant. No significant stenosis. ECG at discharge: sinus rhythm at 60 bpm, axis at 60o, R>S in V3 without repolarisation alterations. Transthoracic echocardiogram at discharge: left ventricle of normal size. The left ventricular wall shows normal thickness. Left ventricular systolic function is normal (EF 65%). Left ventricular wall motion is normal. The right ventricle is normal with respect to size and function. Left atrial size is normal. The size of the right atrium is normal. The mitral valve is normal in structure and function. Anterograde mitral inflow with normal filling pattern. Tricuspid valve appears normal. Minimal tricuspid valve insufficiency is detected. Aortic valve normal in structure and function. Conclusion: normal echocardiogram.

EVOLUTION
This is a 21-year-old male, allergic to mites and grasses, smoker, asthmatic with several annual crises requiring emergency department visits and administration of intravenous corticosteroids and intramuscular adrenaline, who was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit of our hospital due to infero-posterior STEACS in relation to an anaphylactic reaction with severe bronchospasm and hypotension, with no clear trigger (probably environmental factor). The patient required administration of intravenous methylprednisolone and intramuscular adrenaline, improving the respiratory symptoms, but subepicardial lesion persisted despite sublingual nitroglycerine. An urgent coronary angiography was therefore performed without significant lesions. The picture was interpreted as a possible Kounis Syndrome. The Allergy Department assessed the patient with altered tryptase serology and elevated immunoglobulins and eosinophilia, and concluded that the symptoms were due to an immunoallergic mechanism, all of which was compatible with Kounis syndrome. Allergic tests were positive for environmental factors, mites and pollen, as possible triggers. He presented an enzymatic peak of 250 CK with troponin 3,500 with an initial TTE with a subsequent basal and mean hypokinesia that resolved on discharge. The patient was treated with acetylsalicylic acid, amlodipine, corticotherapy in a descending pattern and antihistamines with good clinical evolution, with no new episodes of chest pain. Cardiac MRI was requested, which showed good contractility, preserved fraction and absence of late enhancement in viability sequences. Given the good evolution, the patient was discharged on the seventh day after admission.

DIAGNOSIS
Kounis syndrome (allergic vasospastic angina). Anaphylactic reaction with severe bronchospasm and hypotension. Allergy to mites and pollen.
