HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Cardiovascular risk factors: arterial hypertension (without medical treatment) and grade II obesity (weight 90 kg, height 1.6 m, body mass index [BMI] 35.15 kg/m2). Other history: low back pain due to L4-L5 and L5-S1 facet overload and L4-L5 disc degeneration, cervical pain due to cervical spondylosis with slight posterior protrusion C3-C4, C5-C6 and C6-C7 without spinal cord involvement. Anxiety syndrome, claustrophobia. Peripheral vertigo. Surgical: right carpal tunnel syndrome, caesarean section, curettage for abortion. Toxic: denied. Family history: paternal grandfather died of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) at the age of 64. Usual medication: diazepam 5 mg orally (if required), dexketoprofen 25 mg orally (if required).

Present illness
A 44-year-old woman presented with a clinical picture of 48 hours' evolution, characterised by a first episode of oppressive, retrosternal chest pain of moderate intensity, while at rest, self-limited for 30 minutes, not radiating, not accompanied by vegetative cortex and without modification with postural changes, which she relieved spontaneously. In the following 24 hours, he presented two new episodes of similar characteristics (one in the early morning, self-limited, and the other in the afternoon) for which he consulted a private centre. The electrocardiogram (ECG) showed an inframillimetric suprathreshold level in DI-AVL and a tendency to ST-segment sublevel in DIII and AVF. Anti-inflammatory treatment was administered with clinical improvement, and she was referred to the emergency department of the referral hospital. On arrival at the emergency department, the patient remained asymptomatic, but during her stay she presented a febrile peak, without associated infectious focus, with the same electrocardiographic findings and echocardiogram with preserved left ventricular (LV) systolic function, without segmental alterations of contractility, without significant valvular heart disease and without pericardial effusion. In view of the patient's clinical condition, it was decided to admit her to the coronary care unit, with suspicion of acute myocarditis versus acute coronary syndrome, for continuous cardiovascular monitoring and extension studies, such as cardiac catheterisation. Physical examination Blood pressure (BP) 155/87 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 75 bpm, respiratory rate (RR) 14 rpm, temperature 36.3 oC, basal oxygen saturation 97%. General condition stable, hydrated, eupneic. Neck: jugular ingurgitation could not be assessed due to obesity. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, muffled tones without murmurs or friction rubs. Pulmonary auscultation: clear audible vesicular murmur, no extra sounds. Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of venous thrombosis. Neurological: vigil, conscious, oriented, without focality.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiograms: Initial ECG (with chest pain): RS 70 bpm, PR 160 msec, QRS 90 msec with 60o axis, suprathreshold < 0.5 mm in DI-AVL and tendency to ST-segment sublevel in DIII and AVF. No significant changes in subsequent electrocardiograms without chest pain. ECG (ED, without chest pain, with fever): RS 70 bpm, PR 160, QRS 90 msec, axis 60°, ST elevation of 1mm in DI, aVL, DII with negative T in III and aVF and ST rectification in V4-V5. ECG at discharge: RS at 66 bpm. PR 160 msec. Narrow QRS. Normal electrical axis. ST elevation of 0.5 mm in I, aVL with inferior rectification. Q wave in aVL. Blood tests: On admission (ED): glucose: 144 mg/dl, urea: 27 mg/dl, creatinine: 0.74 mg/dl, Na 139.3 mmol/l, K 3.84 mmol/l, CRP 8.9 mg/dl. Venous gases: pH 7.41, pCO2 40, HCO3 35.7, EB 0.7. Leukocytes 8990, N 77.7%, haemoglobin 13 g/dl, haematocrit 39.5%, platelets 354,000, INR 1. Urine toxins: positive for benzodiazepines, rest negative. Control: total cholesterol 182mg/dl, HDL 42cmg/dl, LDL 124 mg/dl, TGC 79 mg/dl, liver profile normal. CRP 6.7 mg/l, TSH 1.35 mU/l, Hb 1AC 5.6%. Evolution of myocardial necrosis markers: ultrasensitive troponin I 22,973 pg/ml on admission -> 15,255 pg/ml on discharge. CK 589 U/l on admission -> 85U/l on discharge. Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index, without alterations of the pulmonary parenchyma, free costophrenic and cardiophrenic sinuses. Admission portable echocardiogram: LV neither dilated nor hypertrophied with preserved global contractility and altered relaxation. Left atrium (LA) slightly dilated. No structural or functional valvular alterations of note. Non-dilated right chambers with preserved ventricular contractility. Absence of indirect data indicative of significant pulmonary hypertension (PH). Control echocardiogram (before discharge): unchanged with respect to previous study. Coronary angiography: right radial. Right dominance. Coronary arteries without significant angiographic lesions.
CMR (15 days after discharge): study in the late phase after contrast administration shows subepicardial gadolinium uptake in inferomedial, inferolateromedial, anterolateral basal and anterior basal and middle and intramyocardial anterolateral middle and apical segments. Normal systolic function. Conclusion: myocarditis with fibrosis in the described segments.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During her admission to the coronary unit, she remained asymptomatic, coronary angiography performed 12 hours after admission ruled out obstructive coronary artery disease. A repeat transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was performed 24 hours later, with normal biventricular function persisting, without segmental contractility defects or pericardial effusion. Myocardial injury markers remained elevated in plateau for the next 48 hours. Platelet antiplatelet therapy was maintained with acetylsalicylic acid, due to suspicion of NOCA-PT, and ACE inhibitors were started due to a tendency to hypertension (HT) with good tolerance, as well as a high-potency statin. The clinical evolution was satisfactory, remaining haemodynamically stable without signs of heart failure, afebrile, without anginal recurrence and without ventricular arrhythmias on continuous cardiac monitoring. Since CMR was not possible during admission, he was scheduled for outpatient surgery 15 days later. CMR showed anterolateral and inferior subepicardial fibrosis compatible with clinical suspicion of myocarditis, so antiplatelet treatment and statin was withdrawn. During follow-up, the patient suffered some epigastric discomfort with a non-coronary profile and palpitations, with no evidence of ventricular arrhythmias on Holter and normal residual ventricular function.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute myocarditis.
Preserved left ventricular systolic function without segmental alterations.
