HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
Well-controlled hypertension, well-controlled type II DM with diabetic retinopathy, mild CKD and mild vitamin B12 deficiency Current illness 73-year-old male patient referred to the Cardiology Department by his primary care physician for the presence of moderate oedema in both legs and exertional dyspnoea of approximately two days' duration. An ambulatory echocardiogram showed circumferential pericardial effusion with no signs of haemodynamic compromise. For the last few months the patient had been losing 3-4 kg in weight, pain in the shoulder girdle, wrists and hips together with difficulty in gripping and paresthesia in the hands and feet. Hospital admission was indicated for investigation.

Physical examination
Good general condition Conscious and oriented Eupneic at rest and with good tolerance to decubitus Normal jugular venous pressure BP: 140/52 mmHg HR: 87 L/min No neurological focality No macules or signs of arthritis Normal cardiopulmonary auscultation. No pericardial friction rub Abdomen globular, soft and depressible Extremities with tense oedema and skin induration up to middle 1/3

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC: 6,800 leukocytes with normal formula. Hb: 10.1; MCV: 83; platelets: 310,000; glucose: 120; creatinine: 1.48; cholesterol: 125; triglycerides: 143; HDL: 38; LDL: 58; GOT: 23; GPT: 9; LDH: 391 Na: 142; K: 5.2. Coagulation Normal.
Microbial serology: Mycoplasma, Coxiella, Epstein- Barr (Ig M), Cytomegalovirus, Rose Bengal, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C negative.

Immunology: antithyroglobulin antibodies: 222; antimicrosomal antibodies >1300; ANCA negative; anticardiolipin Ig G negative. Anticardiolipin Ig M positive (titre 25.74). ANA + (speckled pattern 1/640). ENAS -, Anti DNA -; complement C3 and C4 normal; rheumatoid factor -.
Peripheral blood smear: red series without atypia.
Proteinogram and immunoglobulins: normal. Mantoux: negative
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 77 bpm. QRS axis at 0oC. Narrow QRS without repolarisation alterations or signs of pericarditis. Isolated negative T in AVL.
Chest X-ray: no infiltrates or masses. No effusions. Increased CTI.
X-ray of the pelvis: bilateral acetabular subchondral sclerosis. Right pretrochanteric calcification.
Spine X-ray: uncoarthrosis. C3-C4 dysarthrosis.
X-ray of the hands: pinching of the DFI predominantly of the 3rd finger of the right hand, pinching of the PFI of the 5th finger of the left hand. No erosions.
Echocardiogram: mild-moderate pericardial effusion without electrocardiographic signs of collapse. V I not dilated with mild concentric hypertrophy and preserved global and segmental systolic function. Normal mitral filling with respiratory variation in E wave, around 30%. LA slightly dilated (24 cm2), with constant diastolic collapse. RV not dilated with inconstant protomesodiastolic collapse. TAPSE 30 mm. Ascending Ao and Ao root not dilated. Mitral V with slight leaflet thickening and mild MR. Aortic V, trivalve with slight fibrosclerosis of leaflets and mild AIo. Very mild TR that does not allow estimation of PSAP. Dilated IVC (20 mm) with abolished respiratory collapse.
Control echocardiogram: LVEDV: 63.8 ml, LVESV 15 ml. Left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophic, without alterations in segmental contractility, preserved LVEF (Simpson 72%). LA moderately dilated. Area 28 cm2. Right atrium with partial diastolic collapse. No right ventricular diastolic collapse or signs of ventricular interdependence. Moderate calcification of the mitral valve subvalvular apparatus. Dilated inferior vena cava (21mm) without inspiratory collapse.

Thoracic-abdominal CT: moderate pericardial effusion with maximum thickness of approximately 25 mm, in inferior regions. No calcifications were identified in the pleural sheets. Small axillary lymph nodes, smaller than a centimetre in the minor axis, with non-specific characteristics. Small paratracheal ganglions, prevascular in aortopulmonary sale, subcarinal, smaller than a centimetre in the minor axis, non-specific, some of them partially calcified. In the abdominal region: liver, gall bladder, bile duct, spleen, kidneys and adrenal glands without significant alterations.

No adenopathies in pathological range were identified. No free fluid is observed.

EVOLUTION
After finding positive autoantibodies, the patient's clinical manifestations and ruling out other causes of pericardial effusion, connective tissue disease was suspected, and so an assessment was requested by Internal Medicine and Rheumatology, who started corticosteroid treatment and classified it as undifferentiated scleroderma-type connective tissue disease. After starting corticosteroid treatment, the patient showed significant clinical improvement. He is currently under follow-up in rheumatology consultations with control of the disease.

DIAGNOSIS
Undifferentiated connective tissue disease of the scleroderma type.
