HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Cardiovascular risk factors: no arterial hypertension, no dyslipidaemia, no diabetes mellitus. Non-smoker, no other toxic habits. No known cardiological history. Other history: haemorrhoids, anal fissure, tension headache. Usual treatment: none.

Present illness
A 55-year-old woman attended the emergency department for two episodes of central thoracic pain triggered by moderate exertion. She described oppressive, non-radiating pain with associated vegetative cramping that persisted at the time of consultation. The patient had no previous angina or infectious symptoms.

Physical examination
Weight 64 kg, height 1.70 m. Body mass index (BMI) 22.14 kg/m2. Blood pressure (BP) 138/82 mmHg. Heart rate (HR) 86 bpm. Oxygen saturation (SatO2) 95% on room air. Eupneic at rest, without orthopnoea or platypnoea. Jugular venous pressure normal. Negative hepatojugular reflex. Cardiac auscultation: regular rhythm, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, without aggregates. Extremities: no oedema. Peripheral pulses preserved and symmetrical.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiograms (ECG): ECG on arrival at the emergency department: sinus bradycardia at 54 bpm. PR 140 ms. QRS 80 ms, axis at -30o. ST segment elevation in V3-V5. Q waves in DIII and aVF. Control ECG 24 hours after admission: negative T waves, deep and symmetrical in V3-V6, DII, DIII and aVF. In recurrence of angina during admission: loss of R wave in V3-V4. ST segment elevation in V3-V5 with biphasic T wave. Blood tests: haemoglobin 12.4 g/dl, haematocrit 41%, platelets 164,000 /μl, leukocytes 7,400/μl. International normalised ratio (INR) 1.05. Basal glycaemia 82 mg/dl. Urea 36 mg/dl, creatinine 0.81 mg/dl, sodium 137 mEq/l, potassium 4.1 mEq/l. Biomarkers of myocardial damage: troponin I (hsTnI) 6,514 ng/l --> 3,343 ng/l --> 3,810 ng/l --> 3,046 --> 2,343 ng/l (normal range: 0.0-11.6 ng/l). RT-PCR for SARS-CoV2: negative. Chest X-ray: centred cardiomediastinal silhouette. Cardiothoracic index (CTI) less than 0.5. Lung fields translucent, without pleural effusion or condensation. Transthoracic echocardiogram: Portable echocardiogram on admission to the coronary unit: non-dilated left ventricle, with extensive septal akinesia, without other alterations of segmental contractility, with preserved global systolic function. Non-dilated right ventricle with preserved systolic function. Normal filling pressures. Absence of significant valvular heart disease. Aortic root and left atrium of normal diameters. Absence of pericardial effusion. Echocardiogram prior to discharge: similar to previous study. Global systolic function preserved. Haemodynamics: Emergent coronary angiography on arrival. Trunk: normal. Anterior descending artery: image compatible with spontaneous coronary dissection at mid-distal level. Distal flow TIMI 3. Circumflex artery: image compatible with spontaneous coronary artery dissection at first obtuse marginal level. Distal flow TIMI 3. Right coronary artery: dominant, normal. Control coronary angiography on the third day of admission. Truncus: normal. Anterior descending artery: image compatible with spontaneous coronary artery dissection at mid level with progression to more distal level compared to previous catheterisation and increased haematoma causing distal flow TIMI 1. Circumflex artery: image compatible with spontaneous coronary artery dissection at first obtuse marginal level. Distal flow TIMI 3. Right coronary artery: dominant, normal. Angio-CT: cardiac cavities of normal size. Ascending and descending thoracic aorta of normal calibre, slightly elongated. Abdominal aorta of high normal calibre (28-29 mm) without arteriosclerosis. At the origin of the celiac trunk there is an image compatible with a haematoma with dense contrast in its interior that could correspond to intramural bleeding causing severe stenosis at that level. Hepatic, splenic and mesenteric arteries without alterations. Normal renal arteries. Absence of coronary calcium. Coronary angiography: left coronary trunk of normal calibre and origin without arteriosclerosis. Anterior descending artery of normal calibre and origin without arteriosclerosis. Haematoma is visualised in the distal anterior descending (AD) artery causing significant stenosis. Circumflex artery of normal calibre and origin without arteriosclerosis. Marginal obtuse branch of good calibre, without arteriosclerosis or signs of vascular involvement. Right coronary artery of normal calibre and origin, without arteriosclerosis, the distal segments are not adequately visualised due to movement artefacts. Absence of signs of vascular involvement. In summary: an image compatible with focal haematoma (small longitudinal extension) with signs of intramural bleeding (contrast density in the central area) located at the origin of the celiac trunk and in the distal portion of the anterior descending artery causing a significant decrease in the calibre of both vessels. No other notable vascular alterations were observed.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On arrival at the emergency department, an electrocardiogram was performed showing ST-segment elevation in anterior leads, activating the haemodynamic alert. Diagnostic coronary angiography showed spontaneous coronary dissection in the middle anterior descending artery (mAD) and the first obtuse marginal branch (1st OM) with preserved distal flow in both arteries, and conservative treatment was decided with double antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation and admission to the coronary unit for follow-up. The patient remained asymptomatic for the first 2 days with a progressive decrease in biomarkers of myocardial damage and electrocardiographic evolution characterised by the appearance of deep negative T waves in the anterolateral and inferior face. On the third day of admission to the coronary unit, he presented several episodes of angina-like central thoracic pain at rest with ST-segment elevation in anterior leads. It was decided to repeat the coronary angiography showing progression of the LAD dissection at distal level with compromise of distal flow (TIMI 1). In view of the findings described, it was decided to maintain conservative and symptomatic management. Subsequent good evolution without new episodes of chest pain, with progressive decrease in biomarkers of myocardial damage and electrocardiographic evolution of acute myocardial infarction, so it was decided to discharge the patient with double antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg, atorvastatin 40 mg, ramipril 2.5 mg, pantoprazole 40 mg and nebivolol 2.5 mg. The patient attended a scheduled outpatient check-up with the cardiologist in the area 2 weeks later, reporting episodes of typical angina with moderate exertion, so it was decided to request an angio-CT scan to assess the resolution of the haematoma and rule out fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). The CT scan showed an image compatible with focal haematoma with signs of intramural bleeding located at the origin of the celiac trunk and in the distal portion of the anterior descending artery, causing a significant reduction in the calibre of both vessels. The decision was made to maintain conservative management of both lesions by increasing the dose of oral beta-blockers, withdrawing clopidogrel and adding nitrates to relieve symptoms, with good initial clinical response, no recurrence of episodes of chest pain and no associated abdominal symptoms.

DIAGNOSIS
Anterior STEMI. Killip I. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection of the mid-distal anterior descending artery and first obtuse marginal artery. Preserved LV systolic function.
Focal haematoma with signs of intramural bleeding located at the origin of the celiac trunk.
