HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
We present the case of a 73-year-old male patient with a DDDR pacemaker since 2002 due to complete atrioventricular block (AVB). In November 2014, he was admitted for facial and upper limb oedema with intoxication on decubitus.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
As part of the study, venous Doppler ultrasound was performed, showing complete thrombosis of the brachiocephalic venous trunk with extension to the right axillary and jugular veins. The diagnosis was confirmed by venography which reported thrombosis of the superior vena cava and both brachiocephalic venous axes up to the subclavian veins and collateral drainage through intercostal veins to the azygos vein.

EVOLUTION
With a diagnosis of SVCS in relation to pacemaker electrodes (MP), the patient consulted vascular surgery, which dismissed the case due to the impossibility of access for stent implantation in the venous territory. The patient was discharged with diuretic treatment and anticoagulation. He consulted the emergency department on two other occasions due to severe headache and intolerance to decubitus; the family also told us that he had suicidal ideas in relation to his symptoms. The procedure was performed in the operating theatre, under general anaesthesia with invasive monitoring, echocardiographic control and available ECC equipment. Prior to the procedure, the right femoral vein was cannulated leaving a 7F introducer and an epicardial electrode was implanted through a left thoracotomy. This electrode was tunneled to a right suprapectoral neobolla and connected to external stimulation, as the patient was dependent on cardiac stimulation. Subsequently, after careful dissection, the old generator was removed, and using Cook radiofrequency sheaths and Spectranetic mechanical sheaths, the electrodes were extracted in their entirety. Once the extraction was completed and prior to the removal of the sheath, a guidewire was introduced through the sheath and advanced to the right femoral vein. Using the femoral access, balloon angioplasty and implantation of two self-expanding stents in the superior vena cava (Sinus XL 14 x 40 mm, Protégé GPS 9 x 40 mm) and another Gore-Tex® stent (Gore-Viabahn 54 mm) in the innominate vein were performed. Once the stent implantation was completed, an SSI generator was connected to the right suprapectoral neobag. After 24 hours, the patient was discharged to the ward with a notable decrease in the oedema in the sella, and was able to sleep all night in the supine position, which he had not been able to do in recent months. The patient was discharged without complications under anticoagulant treatment.

At the three-month follow-up CT scan, the stents were found to be permeable. At the 6-month check-up, he reported complete recovery of his symptoms and was able to lead a normal life.

DIAGNOSIS
Superior vena cava syndrome after MP implantation. Hybrid approach: electrode extraction and venous stent implantation. Epicardial electrode implantation.
