HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
70-year-old woman.
No known drug allergies.
No toxic habits.
Cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension and dyslipidaemia.
Permanent atrial fibrillation (AF) anticoagulated with acenucoumarol since 2014. Surgical interventions: right knee.
Autonomous for basic activities of daily living. Active life, no previous angina or dyspnoea.
Usual treatment: digoxin 0.25 mg daily, lorazepam 1 mg at bedtime, acenocoumarol 4 mg as prescribed, amlodipine/telmisartan 80/5 mg at dinner, verapamil 240 mg at breakfast, atorvastatin 40 mg at dinner, tramadol 100 mg if required, paracetamol 1 g if required, topical calcipotriol 0.005%.

Present illness
70-year-old woman who started the morning of admission, while doing housework, with oppressive chest pain, radiating to the left upper limb, without accompanying vegetative cortex, which forced her to stop and persisted at rest for about 30 minutes. Slight discomfort persisted in the left hemithorax at the time of assessment.

Physical examination
Blood pressure (BP) 147/80 mmHg; heart rate (HR) 80 bpm; SatO2 97% on room air; afebrile. Conscious, oriented, normal colour and well perfused.
Head and neck: no jugular plethora.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen: nondescript.
Lower limbs: trophic disorders due to chronic venous insufficiency. Right paedial pulse present, left absent. No oedema.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram (ECG) on arrival at the emergency department: AF with ventricular response at 75 bpm. Narrow QRS, axis at 30o. No repolarisation alterations. Normal QTc.
Laboratory tests on admission: urea 24 mg/dl, creatinine 0.58 mg/dl, albumin 3.5 g/dl, total bilirubin 0.9 mg/dl, GPT 13 U/L, CK 134 U/l, troponin T US 482 ng/l (normal < 14 ng/l), LDH 233 U/l, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium 3.6 mEq/l, CRP 11 mg/l, haemoglobin 14.5 g/dl, platelets 232.000 /μl, leukocytes 8,300 /μl (lymphocytes 25%, neutrophils 64%). Protombin index 66%, INR 1.3, aPTT 38 sec. Total cholesterol 181 mg/dl, triglycerides 116 mg/dl, LDL 109 mg/dl, HDL 49 mg/dl, non-HDL cholesterol 132 mg/dl. Serum chylomicrons negative.
Chest X-ray on admission: normal cardiothoracic index. No congestive signs, no condensation in the lung parenchyma. Free costophrenic sinuses.
Echocardiogram on admission to the coronary unit: left ventricle (LV) not dilated, with hypertrophy at the level of the interventricular septum. Moderately depressed global systolic function (LVEF 35%) due to akinesia of the mid-apical segments of the septum, anterior and lateral face and apical of the inferolateral and inferior face. Aortic root not dilated. Trivalve aortic valve, sclerocalcified, with preserved opening and mild insufficiency. Sclerocalcified mitral valve with restriction of the posterior leaflet and moderate insufficiency. Moderately dilated left atrium. Right ventricle (RV) not dilated, normocontractile. Mild tricuspid insufficiency that does not allow estimation of RV-AD gradient. Acceleration time in pulmonary artery not suggestive of pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion.
ECG on readmission to the coronary unit after an episode of pain on the ward: AF with ventricular response at 75 bpm. Q wave in V3-V4 with ST elevation in V3-V5, maximum of 2 mm in V4, negative T wave in V2-V6, not present in previous ECGs.
Urgent cardiac catheterisation: right radial access. Normal left main coronary artery. Dissection of the distal anterior descending artery (DA) up to the tip, with occlusion of the vessel at a very distal level. Right circumflex and coronary artery without lesions. The patient was not considered suitable for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Balloon counterpulsation is implanted via the right femoral artery.
Echocardiogram at discharge from the coronary unit: left ventricle of normal size. Basal anterior septum with severe hypertrophy with remaining wall thickness slightly increased. Ejection fraction by Simpson biplane of 48%. Akinesia of the apical segments, with an area near the RV tip suggestive of pseudoaneurysm (1 cm) with a narrow and anfractuous neck filled with Sonovue contrast. Mild-moderate mitral insufficiency. Mild-moderate tricuspid insufficiency. RV-AD gradient of 35 mmHg, undilated inferior vena cava with inspiratory collapse greater than 50%. Estimated PSAP of 40 mmHg. Minimal aortic insufficiency. Aortic root of normal size. No pericardial effusion.
Angio-CT of coronary arteries: synchronised helical study without and with intravenous contrast. Median sternotomy. Post-surgical patch at apex level. Aneurysm and apical pseudoaneurysm up to 6 x 3 cm with several lobulations towards inferior aspect. No pericardial effusion. Small left pleural effusion and subsegmental atelectasis in the left lower lobe.
ECG at discharge: AF with ventricular response at 88 bpm. Deep negative T waves from V2 to V6, less pronounced negative T waves in DI, aVL and DII.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Woman with angina at rest, ECG without repolarisation alterations, ultrasensitive troponin T elevation and apical akinesia. Given the suspicion of tako-tsubo syndrome versus previous high-risk NSTEACS, it was decided to admit her to the coronary unit for monitoring and clinical surveillance.
Pending invasive coronary angiography, treatment was started with double antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation with enoxaparin (INR below 2). During the first 24 hours the patient remained asymptomatic, without new episodes of pain, haemodynamically and respiratory stable, with no arrhythmic events on telemetry. Given her clinical stability, it was decided to transfer her to the hospital ward with telemetry the day after her admission, pending catheterisation.
However, a few hours after his admission to the ward, he started again with chest pain of similar characteristics to the previous one, this time presenting ST segment elevation from V3 to V5, so emergent catheterisation was performed. The catheterisation showed spontaneous dissection at the level of the distal LAD, with very distal occlusion that was not considered susceptible to percutaneous treatment, and it was decided to implant an intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation device to improve coronary perfusion. The patient was readmitted to the coronary unit, maintaining the previously established treatment with double antiplatelet therapy (clopidogrel + ASA) and anticoagulation with enoxaparin.
While stable, 12 hours after the catheterisation, she suddenly began to feel unwell, with sinus tachycardia and hypotension up to 50/30 mmHg, with rapid worsening and deterioration of the level of consciousness. Echocardioscopy showed severe hyperechogenic pericardial effusion not previously present, with involvement of the right chambers. Suspicion of cardiac tamponade secondary to cardiac rupture led to orotracheal intubation, emergency pericardiocentesis with scant haemorrhagic fluid output, and the cardiac surgery team was notified for emergency surgery. Noradrenaline perfusion is started at increasing doses, intensive serum therapy and several red blood cell concentrates are transfused. On arrival of the cardiac surgeons, an urgent sternotomy was performed in the coronary unit box with extraction of abundant clots and visualisation of active bleeding in the apical infarcted region, making it difficult to contain the bleeding. He presented with brief CRA due to AESP which returned after direct cardiac massage and digital tamponade of the bleeding point. After obtaining systolic blood pressure (SBP) figures of around 70-100 mmHg, the patient was transferred to the cardiac surgery operating theatre and the apical defect was repaired with direct suture and BioGlue, which proved difficult due to the extensive friable area, with the need for resternotomy after further bleeding on the first attempt to transfer him to the coronary unit.
After surgery, she was admitted to the coronary unit sedated, well adapted to the ventilator in "Pressure Controlled Volume" mode with standard parameters, with continuous perfusion of dobutamine, noradrenaline and adrenaline for mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 100 mmHg, with 1:1 balloon counterpulsation. In the days following this event, she remained sedated and intubated, requiring inotropic and vasoactive drugs, although progressively at lower doses. Persistent anuria, so on the third day of admission she consulted the nephrology department, which started haemofiltration.
On the fourth day and again suddenly, he presented a new episode of severe hypotension up to 40-50 mmHg with 500 ml of rapid haematic output in the thoracic drainage tubes. Echocardioscopy was performed and showed cardiac tamponade secondary to effusion and the presence of clots in the right chambers. In view of the findings, cardiac surgery was immediately notified and the sternotomy was opened in the same room, extracting abundant clots from the pericardial sac, again visualising apical tearing with abundant active bleeding. They proceeded to perform multiple stitches with Teflon support. During the procedure, he presented severe arterial hypotension requiring high doses of catecholamines (noradrenaline and adrenaline, as well as repeated boluses of phenylephrine). Sternotomy was left open with a Bogotá bag until 48 hours later, when sternal closure was performed as scheduled, which passed without incident.
The patient was subsequently admitted to the coronary unit for a further 21 days, with a slow but favourable clinical evolution. In the control echocardiogram prior to discharge to the ward, a progressive improvement in biventricular function was observed, with LVEF of 48%, due to the presence of a patch in the apex, drawing attention to the existence of a 1 cm pseudoaneurysm in the junctions of the middle segment with the apical segment of the inferior face. After improvement in renal function, a CT angiography of the coronary arteries was requested on the ward, showing an aneurysm and apical and lower apical polylobulated pseudoaneurysm. After discussing the case with cardiac surgery, given the high risk of reoperation, conservative medical treatment was decided. After a total of 74 days in hospital, the patient was discharged home with haemodialysis sessions scheduled every other day, and is currently progressively recovering renal function, asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view, pending an outpatient echocardiogram. Medication at discharge: omeprazole 20 mg at breakfast, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg at lunch, enoxaparin 40 mg intra-dialysis circuit on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays and subcutaneous the rest of the days, carvedilol 6.25 mg 1 every 12 hours, atorvastatin 20 mg at dinner.

DIAGNOSIS
Main diagnosis:
Killip I anterior STEMI. Spontaneous distal LAD dissection with distal vessel occlusion, not amenable to coronary intervention.
CRA by pulseless electrical activity (PEA) in the context of cardiac tamponade due to rupture of the free wall of the left ventricle, on two occasions.

Secondary diagnoses:
Pseudonaneurysm and apical and lower apical polylobulated aneurysm. Slightly depressed LVEF.
Severe acute renal failure on haemodialysis.
Polytransfusion.
Permanent anticoagulated atrial fibrillation. Arterial hypertension. Dyslipidaemia.
