HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Background
27-year-old male, student and candidate for the state security forces. Athletic build, with no known toxic habits or metabolic disorders.

Cardiological history:
No cardiological history of interest, no family history of heart disease or sudden death.

Other history:
Infiltrating adenocarcinoma of the rectosigmoid junction T2N2, diagnosed after anaemia study five months before the episode. Treated by laparoscopic rectosigmoidectomy one month after diagnosis. Currently on chemotherapy treatment with oxaliplatin and capecitabine, having received a first cycle 15 days before the cardiorespiratory arrest.
Stage II pulmonary sarcoidosis, diagnosed four months before the episode, following extension studies of the rectal neoplasia. Diagnosis confirmed by biopsy of paratracheal adenopathy and untreated at the time of cardiorespiratory arrest.
No other medical treatment apart from chemotherapy (oxaliplatin and capecitabine, having received a first cycle 15 days ago).

Current illness
The patient suffered a cardiorespiratory arrest during a football match. On arrival of the emergency services, advanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was started and the patient presented with a shockable rhythm of ventricular fibrillation. After two shocks and a single dose of adrenaline, the patient regained rhythm and was transferred to our hospital under orotracheal intubation (OTI) and mechanical ventilation.
When the patient was questioned during his stay on the ward, he reported having no memory of the episode. He denied any clinical manifestations prior to the cardiorespiratory arrest. He also reported no previous symptoms of angina, dyspnoea or syncope and maintained his usual NYHA I/IV functional class without any symptoms of heart failure.

Physical examination
The first examination was performed on arrival at the emergency critical care ward of our hospital, with the patient sedated, relaxed and on invasive ventilation and OTI.
The temperature was 36.8oC; heart rate 100 bpm; blood pressure 105/67 mmHg; saturation 100% (OTI).
He is well hydrated, skin warm and well perfused. Rhythmic heart sounds without over-additions. Bladder murmur preserved with symmetrical ventilation in both hemithoraxes and no over-added sounds. Abdomen with a recent laparoscopic scar of good appearance. Soft, with no palpable masses or megaliths. No defence on palpation. Extremities well perfused, pulses present and symmetrical. No signs of oedema or venous thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS

Laboratory tests:
Biochemistry: glucose 83 mg/dl, urea 30 mg/dl, creatinine 0.94 mg/dl, glomerular filtration rate > 90 ml/min/1.78 m , sodium ion 142 mmol/l, potassium ion 4.3 mmol/l, ultrasensitive troponin T 110 ng/l (VN < 14 ng/l), creatine kinase 537 U/l (VN < 200 U/l), alkaline phosphatase 49 U/l, AST 64 U/l, ALT 78 U/l, GGT 22 U/l, total bilirubin < 1.0 mg/dl, total cholesterol 142 mg/dl, HDL 35 mg/dl, triglycerides 134 mg/dl, calculated LDL cholesterol 80 mg/dl, HbA1C 4.9%, TSH 0.92 mU/l.
CBC: haemoglobin 16.3 g/dl, haematocrit 45.8%, red blood cells 5.67x106/μl, leukocytes 8,360/μl, neutrophils 7,110/μl, lymphocytes 680/μl, monocytes 540/μl, eosinophils 8/μl, basophils 16/μl, platelets 105,000/μl.
Coagulation: prothrombin time (PT) 11.8 sec; partial thromboplastin time (PTT) 24 sec; INR 1.04; derived fibrinogen 37 mg/l
Urine toxicity: negative for benzodiazepine, cocaine, methadone, opiates, methamphetamines, amphetamines, cannabis, ecstasy, barbiturates, tricyclic antidepressants. Urine system and urine sediment: normal.
3-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) (cardiorespiratory arrest rhythm): ventricular fibrillation.
12-lead ECG (arrival at the hospital emergency room): sinus tachycardia at 120 bpm. P wave of normal size and duration. Normal PR segment. Narrow QRS complex, axis at 60o and transition in V3 in precordial leads. ST segment without suprathreshold. Negative T wave in lateral leads (V6, I and aVL) and in inferior face (II and aVF).

Chest X-ray: cardiac silhouette of normal size. Mediastinal enlargement with bilateral hilar adenopathies without tracheal deviation or compression. Endotracheal tube 2 cm above the tracheal carina. No vascular redistribution, pleural effusion or pneumothorax. Distended gastric chamber.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: normal sized atria. Left ventricle (LV) slightly dilated with normal thickness, normal global and segmental systolic function (LVEF 60%), normal left ventricular filling pressures. Right ventricle of normal size, preserved systolic function (TAPSE 31 mm). Normally functioning atrioventricular valves with no evidence of stenosis or insufficiency. Thin trivalve aortic valve, normal function. Pulmonary valve without stenosis, with mild pulmonary insufficiency. No pericardial effusion. Normal flow in descending aorta and abdominal aorta.
Computed tomography (CT) coronary arteries: epicardial arteries without lesions or congenital anatomical alterations.
Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR): left ventricle slightly dilated (TVD 118 ml/m2 and STV 49 ml/m2), normal myocardial mass (104 g/m2) without contractility alterations and with normal systolic function (EF 58%). No areas of hypertrophy or non-compaction are seen. No hyperintense areas suggestive of intramyocardial oedema are seen in the STIR sequence. Several areas of intramural late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) are seen in the basal anteroseptal segment and in the inferior junction of both ventricles compatible with areas of intramyocardial scarring. Right ventricle of normal size, with preserved systolic function. Left atrium slightly dilated (22 cm2) and right atrium of normal size. Aorta, pulmonary artery and pericardium without alterations.
Positron emission tomography with 18F-deoxyglucose (PET): multiple hypermetabolic adenopathies located in supraclavicular, mediastinal and hilar compartments compatible with confirmed stage II pulmonary sarcoidosis. No hypermetabolic pathological foci in the myocardium suspicious of acute sarcoidotic or other inflammatory involvement. The rest of the study showed no findings of interest.

CLINICAL COURSE
A 27-year-old man who presented with out-of-hospital cardiorespiratory arrest due to recovered ventricular fibrillation. The patient was admitted intubated to the cardiac intensive care unit where he remained for 4 days and was extubated in the first 24 hours.
He was subsequently transferred to the cardiology ward to complete the studies. Throughout his stay, he remained asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view, with no rhythm alterations detected on telemetry. The aforementioned studies were performed in order to reach a diagnosis and guide treatment.
Initially, many diagnostic options were considered as possible aetiologies for ventricular fibrillation: ischaemic heart disease, ventricular arrhythmias in a structurally healthy heart or even the possibility of cardiac toxicity due to chemotherapy treatment.
After the initial echocardiographic study, CT of the coronary arteries and the subsequent CMR study, the presence of intramyocardial fibrosis was confirmed. This finding, together with the episode of ventricular fibrillation and the previous diagnosis of systemic sarcoidosis (by biopsy) confirmed the diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis and thus the cause of cardiorespiratory arrest.

In the absence of data of acute inflammatory activity in the CMR, and with a view to assessing possible anti-inflammatory treatment, it was decided to complete studies with PET-CT, which again ruled out the presence of intramyocardial inflammatory activity.

For this reason, in agreement with the autoimmune unit of the internal medicine department, anti-inflammatory treatment was finally rejected and a subcutaneous implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) was implanted for secondary prevention of sudden death.
To date, the patient remains stable and without new arrhythmic events.

DIAGNOSIS
Out-of-hospital cardiorespiratory arrest due to ventricular fibrillation.
Cardiac sarcoidosis with intramyocardial scarring but no evidence of active intramyocardial inflammation.
Left ventricular systolic function preserved.
Coronary arteries without lesions or coronary anomalies.
Subcutaneous ICD implantation for secondary prevention.
