HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Allergy to acetylsalicylic acid. Cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension. Ex-smoker for 7 years, previously smoked 10 cigarettes a day. No cardiological history. Other history: intraocular hypertension. Seasonal allergic rhinitis. Usual treatment: enalapril 10 mg (1 tablet per day), rupatadine fumarate 10 mg (1 tablet per day), latanoprost 50 mcg/ml (1 ophthalmic single-dose pack per day) Baseline: independent for activities of daily living. Active life. No cognitive impairment.

Present illness
A 71-year-old man came to the emergency department with clinical manifestations of weakness and clumsiness in the right upper limb on waking up in the morning, perceived as being unable to turn off the alarm clock. When trying to get out of bed, he fell to the floor due to weakness in the right lower limb. In addition, there was a deviation of the corner of the mouth to the right. He reported very slight improvement in these symptoms during his stay in the emergency room. Asymptomatic when he began to rest at night the previous night. No thermometric fever or dysthermic sensation. No chest pain, dyspnoea or palpitations.

Physical examination
Good general condition. Normal colour of skin and mucous membranes. Adequate nutrition and hydration. No rash or petechiae. No lymphadenopathies. Eupneic at rest. Blood pressure (BP) 159/94 mmHg; heart rate (HR) 79 bpm; oxygen saturation 97% aa; blood glucose 118 mg/dl; temperature 36.6 oC. Cardiac auscultation: regular sounds without murmurs. Respiratory auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, no pathological sounds.

Abdomen soft and depressible, non-painful, with no signs of peritoneal irritation and no evidence of visceromegaly or masses. Lower extremities without oedema and with present and symmetrical pulses. Neurological examination: NIHSS 2. Conscious and oriented with preserved language. Discrete dysarthria. Pupils isochoric and normoreactive. Normal confrontational campimetry. Normal extrinsic ocular motility. Deviation of the oral commissure to the right with disappearance of the left nasolabial fold. No signs of meningeal irritation. No carotid murmurs were heard. Strength in MSD 4/5, MID 4+/5, MSI 5/5, MII 5/5. Sensibility and reflexes normal. Plantar cutaneous reflexes in flexion. No dysmetria or adiodokinesia. Romberg negative, with no alterations in gait.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 58 bpm, PR 200 ms, left bundle branch block type ventricular conduction disorder. Blood tests: haemoglobin 15.5 g/dl, haematocrit 45.4%, mean corpuscular volume 90.7 fl, mean corpuscular haemoglobin 30.9 pg, leukocytes 6300/ml, neutrophils 3500/ml, lymphocytes 1700/ml, monocytes 600/ml, platelets 240000/ml. Coagulation: partial thromboplastin time (PTT) 29.8 s, thromboplastin time (ratio) 1.02, fibrinogen 248 mg/dl, INR 1.0. Biochemistry: glucose 135 mg/dl, urea 31 mg/dl, creatinine 1.11 mg/dl, glomerular filtration rate > 60 ml/min/m2, sodium 140 mmol/l, potassium 3.8 mmol/l, total bilirubin 0.6 mg/dl, ALT 26 U/l, CK 70 U/l, amylase 71 U/l, C-reactive protein < 1 mg/l. Posteroanterior and lateral chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. Elongation of the aorta. Thickening of the peribronchovascular interstitium, without identifying areas of consolidation or pleural effusion. No other significant findings in lung parenchyma or cardiomediastinal silhouette. CT scan of the skull without contrast and cerebral angio-CT in the emergency department: empty cranial CT scan: hypoattenuation of periventricular white matter in relation to changes due to chronic hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy. Rest of brain and cerebellar parenchyma unaltered. No areas of intra- or extra-axial cerebral haemorrhage, oedema, midline deviation or hydrocephalus. No lesions in the calvarium. Signs of sinusopathy with mucosal debris occupying bilateral ethmoidal cells. Cerebral CT angiography of the supra-aortic trunks and the polygon of Willis: the large vessels forming the supra-aortic trunks and the polygon of Willis were patent and of normal calibre, with no occlusions, images of stenosis or aneurysms. Lipoma measuring 10 x 5 mm on the inferior aspect of the right sternocleidomastoid muscle. Cervical degenerative changes. Other structures included in the study, with no other significant findings. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and angio-MRI (images 2, 3 and 4): scan performed without and after administration of IVC: there are multiple foci of diffusion restriction due to acute ischaemia distributed dispersed throughout the right midbrain territory with both cortical and deep involvement. Although smaller in number and volume, there were also multiple foci of acute ischaemia in the posterior border territory of the left hemisphere. No signs of haemorrhagic complications. Vascular examination showed no significant stenotic pathology in supra-aortic trunks or structures of the polygon of Willis. Holter: sinus rhythm throughout the recording. Mean heart rate 75 bpm, minimum heart rate of 44 bpm and maximum of 110 bpm. There was a ventricular conduction disorder such as left bundle branch block and PR at the limit. No signs of high-grade atrioventricular block. Maximum RR 1.15 s. Conclusion: intraventricular disorder without arrhythmias with cardioembolic potential. Transthoracic echocardiography: mild concentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle with preserved global systolic function. Abnormal septobasal movement, without other alterations of segmental contractility at rest. Absence of significant valvular heart disease. Transmitral filling pattern of impaired relaxation without signs of increased left ventricular filling pressures. Normal right ventricle. Mild tricuspid insufficiency allowing estimation of pulmonary systolic pressure of approximately 35 mmHg. Transesophageal echocardiography: transesophageal exploration carried out after sedation with midazolam i.v. 6 mg, without complications. Vibrating, filamentous mass of intermediate echorefringence, approximately 6 x 2.5 mm in size on the ventricular side of the aortic valve, suggestive of papillary fibroelastoma. Normal transvalvular aortic flow. Left aortic valve free of thrombus. No shunt through the interatrial septum after administration of agitated saline. The rest of the study is superimposable to the transthoracic examination.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
In summary, this is a 71-year-old man who was admitted to the neurology department for a picture of neurological focality of sudden onset consisting of weakness of the right lower and upper limbs and facial asymmetry, with progressive resolution during hospitalisation. As for the aetiological study, cerebral magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple cortical and deep ischaemic lesions in the territory of both middle cerebral arteries. In view of the suspected cardioembolic aetiology, the cardiology department was contacted to complete the study. During her hospital stay, electrocardiographic monitoring by Holter, which showed no arrhythmias suggestive of causing the current clinical picture, and transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography, the latter showing a lesion in the aortic valve compatible with papillary fibroelastoma. After finding evidence of this lesion, the cardiac surgery department was contacted to assess the case. Given the symptoms of embolic origin consisting of ischaemic involvement of the right and left middle cerebral arteries, surgery was performed consisting of resection of the tumour, without the need for valve repair. In successive outpatient check-ups, the patient was asymptomatic, with no evidence of new embolic phenomena.

DIAGNOSIS
Biterritorial ischaemic stroke (both middle cerebral arteries) of cardioembolic aetiology secondary to aortic fibroelastoma.
