HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 65 years old.

BACKGROUND:
No known allergies. Toxic habits: ex-smoker (IPA 20 packs/year). Occasional alcohol consumption (1 beer at weekends).
Cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF): hypertension (HT), mixed dyslipidaemia, no diabetes mellitus (DM).
Cardiovascular history: chronic ischaemic heart disease: admission for non-Q AMI in 2010 with complete percutaneous revascularisation of severe lesion in middle anterior descending and distal right coronary artery. Asymptomatic for angina. No new events. Echocardiogram: left ventricle of normal size and wall thickness. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) preserved with akinesia of the basal segment of the inferior face, the rest preserved. Left atrium of normal size. Right chambers of normal size.
Normal right ventricular ejection fraction (RVEF). Tricuspid aortic valve anatomically and functionally normal. Mitral valve with focal annular calcification and trivial mitral regurgitation. Mild tricuspid insufficiency allowing estimation of normal pulmonary systolic pressure.
Inferior vena cava of normal size and inspiratory collapse > 50%. Absence of pericardial effusion. ECG: sinus rhythm at 65 bpm. Normal PR. Narrow QRS. Normal axis. Q wave in lead III. Negative T waves in V4-6.
Poor tolerance to atorvastatin 80 mg, atorvastatin 40 mg and pitavastatin 2 mg due to myalgias and asthenia, without CPK elevation.
Other antecedents: hypothyroidism in substitutive treatment. Altered fasting blood glucose in dietary treatment. Fracture of the right radius after a traffic accident in 1995.
Usual treatment: aspirin 100 mg, lisinopril 10 mg, levothyroxine 50 mcg, omeprazole 20 mg, rosuvastatin 40 mg.

CURRENT DISEASE:
Annual follow-up in cardiology consultation. She went for consultation in April 2017: stable from a cardiovascular point of view. She reports that after the last check-up where the lipid-lowering treatment was changed due to intolerance, she has had slightly elevated blood glucose levels, for which her primary care doctor is closely monitoring her. However, he reports good tolerance to the new drug in terms of asthenia and myalgia.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Blood pressure (BP) 130/65 mmhg. Heart rate (HR) 70 bpm. Body mass index (BMI) 24.5. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation (PA): normal, no extra sounds. No peripheral oedema. Signs of chronic venous insufficiency.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ANALYTICS (March 2017): total cholesterol 235 mg/dl; LDL cholesterol 110 mg/dl (baseline levels around 160 mg/dl), fasting blood glucose 110 mg/dl. HbA1c 5.9%. Rest without relevant alterations.
ECG: sinus rhythm at 70 bpm. PR 200 msg. Narrow QRS. Q wave in III. Negative T waves in V4-6. Similar to previous.
THORAX RADIOGRAPHY: normal cardiothoracic index. Free costophrenic sinuses. No images of infiltrates or signs of consolidation.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
It was decided to change treatment with rosuvastatin to start evolocumab 140 mg (1 injection every 15 days at home).

DIAGNOSIS
Chronic ischaemic heart disease.
Poor control of target lipid levels (LDL 110 mg/dl).
HYPERTENSION.
Impaired fasting blood glucose
Borderline BMI
