Background
A 63-year-old patient with no known drug allergies, with cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension, dyslipidaemia, obesity) and a history of epilepsy, hypothyroidism secondary to thyroiditis and chronic renal failure with baseline creatinine levels of around 1.91. In December 2012, he presented with a first episode of congestive heart failure and was diagnosed with a bicuspid aortic valve with severe insufficiency and moderate LV dysfunction, and the medical-surgical committee decided to perform surgery. Preoperative coronary angiography ruled out significant coronary lesions. The operation was successfully performed on 08/04/2013 and a St Jude No. 25 mechanical prosthesis was placed. During the postoperative period, the patient had a torpid evolution with atrial flutter with a high ventricular response that was difficult to control, oliguric renal failure with an increase in creatinine levels to a maximum of 4 mg/dl, a generalised tonic-clonic seizure episode with a good pharmacological response to valproate and levetiracetam and retroperitoneal haematoma in the head and body of the pancreas. After progressive improvement with favourable evolution, the patient was discharged from hospital.
Pre-discharge echocardiography: aortic prosthesis with normofunction criteria. LV slightly dilated (LVED 56 mm) and LVEF approximately 50%. Central mild MI.
ECG prior to discharge: sinus rhythm with HRBBB at 60 bpm. Subsequently, correct follow-up by Cardiology outpatients without new cardiological events of interest and with normal echocardiographic controls. Regular treatment with synthrom, omeprazole 40 mg, ezetimibe/simvastatin (10/40 mg), fenofibrate 200 mg, eutirox 100 mcg, allopurinol 300 mg and levetiracetam 1,000 mg every 12 hours. Current history: on 5/01/2017 he attended the Emergency Department of our hospital due to initially diffuse and episodic abdominal pain that later became localised in the right hypochondrium for six hours, with no accompanying vegetative cortex. There was no thermometric fever, although there was a feeling of dystrophy. The patient also presented an increase in his usual dyspnoea to the point of minimal effort and orthopnoea. No syncope or presyncope. No palpitations or chest pain.

Physical examination
BP 120/57, HR 63 bpm, Temperature: 37.7°C, Baseline O2 Sat 97%
Patient conscious and temporospatially oriented, well perfused and hydrated. Colour slightly jaundiced, eupneic at rest.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds without audible murmurs. Aortic valve click.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur in all fields without added pathological sounds.
Abdomen globular but depressible, pain on palpation in the right hypochondrium. Murphy. Hydro-aerial sounds present. No signs of peritoneal irritation.
Lower extremities without oedema or signs of DVT.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests on arrival at the ED: glucose 341, urea 84, creatinine 2.59, Na 131, Cl 101, K 4.8, liver profile and bilirubin without alterations. Myocardial necrosis markers: troponin I 0.06, myoglobin 97. ProBNP 3.984. Haemogram: Leukocytes 8,700 (75.4 % neutrophils), Hb 10.6, Hto 33.2 %, platelets 19,600. INR 3.33, prothrombin activity 25 %. ECG: complete AV block with escape rhythm at 56 bpm. BRDHH. No acute repolarisation abnormalities. Chest X-ray: (06/01/2017) atheromatosis and aortic elongation. Aortic prosthesis, cardiomegaly. Hilar thickening with vascular appearance.
Ultrasound of the abdomen: (07/01/2017) distended gallbladder (125 x 44 mm) with thickening and parietal oedema (4 mm), perivesicular oedema, perivesicular-perihepatic free fluid and maximum pain at the gallbladder site. Inside, there are few small hyperechogenic images, one of them with posterior shadowing. Overall, the patient fulfils the criteria for acute cholecystitis as the first diagnostic possibility. It could be, although less likely, a stress gallbladder in the context of heart failure or alliasic cholecystitis (diabetic debut). Liver with a marked diffuse increase in steatotic echorefringence. No bile duct ectasia. Pancreatic area is not visible due to abundant abdominal weathering. Spleen of normal size and morphology. Kidneys of normal morphology and symmetrical. Abdominal aorta not approachable. Bladder without alterations.

EVOLUTION
Given the ultrasound findings of acute cholecystitis, antibiotherapy was started as conservative management without improvement of the picture, persisting fever and worsening analytical control analysis: procalcitonin 6.84, creatinine 4.13, chlorine 108, sodium 135, potassium 5.4, amylase 95, lipase 258, normal liver profile, leucocytes 13.500 N87.3 %, Hb 9.5, haematocrit 30.7 %, INR 18.84, prothrombin activity 4 %. In view of this situation, it was decided to perform an urgent cholecystectomy. Prior to surgery, the Anaesthesia Service requested our assessment. Given the finding of complete AVB and fever, it was decided to perform echocardiography with the following result: Echocardiography: (09/01/2017) non-dilated LV (LVEDD 55 mm), preserved LVEF (estimated by Teicholz 65%). Septa with flattened motion. MV: slightly fibrous leaflets with calcium in the mitral annulus, mild central MI, no images suggestive of endocarditis on the mitral valve. St Jude mechanical aortic prosthesis no. 25, slightly elevated gradients for model and number of prosthesis (maximum gradient of 45 mmHg, mean gradient of 24 mmHg). At the level of the mitro-aortic junction, a filiform image of anarchic movement suggestive of an endocarditic process can be seen. At apical level 5C there is flow from VAo to LA suggestive of aorto-auricular fistula. Right chambers not dilated. Preserved RVEF (TAPSE 23 mmHg), mild TR. Non-dilated IVC with normal inspiratory collapse. PAPs 35 mmHg. No pericardial effusion, perihepatic free fluid. In view of the new evidence, blood cultures were taken and empirical antibiotic treatment was started with cloxacillin, ampicillin and gentamicin, adjusted according to renal function. He was admitted to the coronary ICU of our hospital pending transesophageal echocardiography and assessment by Cardiac Surgery. On admission to the ICU, he presented disconnection from the environment, right hemiplegia and complete aphasia. An urgent cranial CT scan was performed which showed an acute cerebral haematoma in the right parieto-temporal region measuring 29 x 25 x 32 mm with an estimated volume of 12 cc, subarachnoid discharge and minimal intraventricular blood. After acute haemorrhagic stroke, action by Cardiac Surgery was postponed. Subsequent poor evolution with persistent fever, septic symptoms and haemodynamic deterioration despite targeted antibiotic therapy. Blood cultures isolated Streptococcus gallolyticus sensitive to beta lactams. The patient died on 17/01/2017 after progressive worsening and multiorgan failure.


DIAGNOSIS
Acute cholecystitis with torpid evolution, persistent fever and complete AV block. Streptococcus gallolyticus endocarditis on prosthetic AV complicated by aorto-cavitary fistula to the left atrium. Acute haemorrhagic stroke of possible cardioembolic origin Septic shock refractory to intensive medical treatment and multi-organ failure.
