PERSONAL HISTORY
54-year-old woman, no known drug allergies, active and independent life. Family history of Marfan syndrome in a brother with a positive genetic study (mutation in the FBN1 gene). Our patient was tested for this mutation, which was negative, and did not have a marfanoid morphotype. Cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF): smoker of 1 pack a day (IPA 30), no hypertension (HT), no diabetes mellitus (DM), no dyslipidaemia.
Cardiological history: Admitted to hospital 3 months ago for chest pain, mainly exertional, of 1 year's duration, with typical characteristics, but of shortened duration and a syncopal episode with a cardiogenic profile. On admission, no arrhythmic alterations were documented after more than 72 hours of continuous electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring, echocardiography ruled out relevant structural heart disease and an ischaemia detection test was performed using ergometry, which was clinically and electrically negative, so she was discharged with a diagnosis of non-coronary chest pain and syncope under study and referred to the syncope clinic.
On discharge, hygienic-dietary measures were insisted upon, but no pharmacological treatment was started. No other medical or surgical history of interest. No usual medical treatment.

CURRENT ILLNESS
Three months after discharge from hospital, while accompanying a relative to the hospital, he again lost consciousness and was immediately transferred to the emergency critical care unit. During the transfer, he suffered cardiorespiratory arrest (CRA), and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) manoeuvres were started, with the first rhythm detected after monitoring in ventricular fibrillation requiring three defibrillations at 360J to restore spontaneous circulation and orotracheal intubation (OTI) and connection to invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV), with a total CRA time of 9 min. According to his relative, moments before the onset of the condition, he reported chest discomfort of rapid onset. The first post-arrest ECG, in sinus rhythm, initially showed diffuse ST-segment elevation with an increase in aVR and persistent ST-segment elevation in lateral leads in serial ECGs. Therefore, emergent coronary angiography was performed, showing coronary arteries without angiographic lesions, aortography and ventriculography without data suggesting acute aortic syndrome or alterations in contractility. Echocardioscopy performed in the acute phase showed no significant alterations, including the absence of dilatation of the right chambers suggestive of pulmonary thromboembolism or aortic flap. Finally, the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), where she had a good clinical evolution and early weaning was possible. With no recurrence of arrhythmias during her stay in the ICU, she was transferred to the cardiology ward and monitored for further study and treatment.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Examination on the cardiology ward: blood pressure (BP) 122/94, heart rate (HR) 62 bpm, temperature 36.4 ̊C, baseline SpO2 94%. Conscious and oriented. Normal colour, normohydrated. Eupneic at rest. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic tones at 78 bpm, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: normal ventilation, no added pathological sounds. Abdomen: nondescript. Lower extremities: symmetrical pulses, no signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT).

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Emergency laboratory tests: no significant alterations. Glucose 195 mg/dl, creatinine 0.8 mg/dl, Na 141 mEq/l, K 3.9 mEq/l, Mg2+: 2.2 mEq/l (normal 1.5-2.5), Ca2+: 9.3 mg/dl (normal 8.8-10.5 mg/dl); D-dimer 452. Myocardial damage markers: initial TnTus < 13 ng/l, CPK 205 U/l; CK-MB 23 (U/l) (normal 5-24). Maximal: TnTus 138 ng/l (0-14); CPK 397 U/l (39-308), CK-MB 51 U/l (5-24). General laboratory tests: biochemistry: glucose 81 mg/dl, urea 0.36 g/l, creatinine 0.63 mg/dl, calculated GFR > 90 ml/min/1.73 m2, albumin 3.69 g/dl, total cholesterol 208 mg/dl, LDL 152.8 mg/dl, liver profile normal, total calcium 9.33 mg/dl, Na 139.9 mEq/l, K 4.51 meq/l, TSH 0.79 mU/l. Haemogram: Hb 15.2 g/dl, Ht 44.1%, leucocytes 9,200, N 60%, platelets 267,000. Catecholamines in 24-hour urine: negative. Chest X-ray: normal CTI, mediastinum and lung fields without significant alterations. Post-arrest ECG: sinus tachycardia at 108 bpm, normal PR, no pre-excitation, narrow QRS, ST-segment elevation of up to 3 mm in V3-V6, and less than 1 mm in inferior leads, with ST-segment elevation of 1 mm in aVR and V1. At 5 minutes only the descent from V4-V6 remains. Normal QTc Normal baseline ECG: sinus rhythm at 88 bpm, normal PR without pre-excitation, no conduction or repolarisation disturbances. Slow R wave progression in precordial leads. Normal QTc. Echocardiogram: left atrium not dilated. Thin leaflet mitral valve with preserved mobility and opening; no regurgitation. Left ventricle neither dilated (LVEDV 4C: 83 ml; LVESV: 25 ml) nor hypertrophic with preserved ejection fraction and no clear segmental alterations of contractility. Preserved GLS (-22.3%). Trivalve aortic valve, thin with good opening and mobility; normal flow. Valvular annulus and aortic root of normal dimensions; the rest of the thoracic aorta cannot be assessed. Right chambers not dilated; right ventricular contractility preserved. Tricuspid valve with good opening and mobility; minimal regurgitation. Pulmonary valve with good opening; flow curve with normal characteristics. No pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion. Continuous ECG monitoring: no arrhythmic or ST alterations for 72 hours. Emergent catheterisation: coronary angiography: epicardial coronary arteries without angiographically significant lesions. Ventriculography: LV neither dilated nor hypertrophied, with preserved global systolic function, without clear segmental alterations in contractility (video 6). Aortography: aortic root and ascending aorta not dilated without angiographic data suggestive of acute aortic syndrome. Ajmaline test: negative.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During admission, he did not present new episodes of chest pain with the treatment given, nor sustained arrhythmias, only a 4-second NSVT flap. Blood and urine catecholamine tests were requested for 24-hour urine and blood tests were negative. Therefore, despite the fact that the baseline electrocardiogram showed no data suggestive of channelopathies (normal QTc, absence of J wave and spontaneous Brugada pattern, previous ergometry without alterations), ajmaline test was performed to unmask a possible hidden Brugada syndrome pattern, which was negative, and finally, it was decided to implant an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for secondary prevention. After this, the patient was discharged from hospital with a diagnosis of cardiorespiratory arrest due to probable ventricular fibrillation, and treatment was recommended with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg/24h, sotalol 80 mg/8h and a high-potency statin given the presence of dyslipidaemia with LDL of 152 mg/dl. One month after implantation, he presented an appropriate ICD discharge due to rapid polymorphic VT and several non-sustained episodes of polymorphic VT. For this reason, low-dose bisoprolol was added. The patient clinically continued with episodes of short-lasting chest discomfort, more frequently since the initiation of beta-blockade. In view of the suspicion of vasospasm, ECG recording of the symptoms was insisted on using 12-lead Holter, which showed, coinciding with two episodes of chest pain, a marked transient ST-segment elevation in the inferior and lateral face and ST-segment underleveling in V1 to V4 (which appears to be posterior ST-segment elevation) lasting about 3 minutes and accompanied by ventricular extrasystoles and a brief NSVT that was interpreted as a transient subepicardial infero-posterolateral lesion, supporting the diagnosis of coronary vasospasm. A new hospital admission was decided to adjust his treatment, suspending the beta-blocker and starting amlodipine and transdermal nitrites. During the first few days he presented repeated episodes of vasospastic angina, one of them with sustained VT and appropriate ICD discharge. Titration to maximum tolerated doses was achieved and finally after association with a second calcium antagonist (verapamil), the clinical symptoms resolved. After more than 72 hours asymptomatic and without arrhythmias, the patient was discharged from hospital, with the following diagnoses and associated with previous treatment with ASA and statin, verapamil 80 mg/8h, amlodipine 5 mg/day, and nitroglycerin patch 5 mg/24h. The patient has had regular check-ups at the cardiology clinic during these 3 years. Since discharge, she has not presented any further syncopal episodes, episodes of chest pain are practically non-existent and ASA has been discontinued after subsequent review that the coronary angiography images showed no significant atherosclerosis, and only in one of the device reviews was there a bout of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT) that was successfully treated by means of overstimulation.

DIAGNOSIS
High-risk syncope.
Cardiorespiratory arrest probably secondary to ventricular fibrillation.
Vasospastic angina.
ICD implantation in secondary prevention.
Sustained and non-sustained ventricular tachycardias in the context of vasospastic angina.
Dyslipidaemia with LDL levels outside the target range.
