PERSONAL HISTORY
This is a 67-year-old patient from France, resident in the summer in a town in the Aragonese Pyrenees. He worked in the construction sector, but is currently retired. There is no record of any previous medical history in our health system. In a report provided by his wife, there are no known drug allergies to date, and his medical history only includes active smoking (IPA 50), type II diabetes mellitus being treated with metformin and hyperuricaemia, for which he takes allopurinol 100 mg every 24 hours.

CURRENT DISEASE
At the end of June 2018, after returning home with intense low back pain after doing farm work in an orchard, he takes a diclofenac tablet. Half an hour earlier, he reported having been bitten by an insect that he did not identify. Shortly afterwards, after dinner (during which he had not eaten any new food in his diet), he presented with a pruritic rash, initially on his arms, which quickly became generalised, and a feeling of dyspnoea. Subsequently, he began to experience oppressive central thoracic pain and loss of consciousness with rapid spontaneous recovery with blood pressure (BP) 65/35 and SpO2 88% recorded by the emergency services mobilised to his home. Systemic treatment with methylprednisolone and dexchlorpheniramine was started, and the anaphylactic symptoms resolved. The electrocardiograms (ECG) performed showed transient lower-posterior and lateral ST-segment elevation, so after administering loading doses of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and ticagrelor, he was transferred to our centre by helicopter for urgent coronary angiography. Echocardioscopy was performed in the antechamber and showed hypokinesia of anterolateral and inferolateral basal and medial segments.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
On arrival in the haemodynamics room, the physical examination was normal except for the presence of a discrete rash on the trunk which disappeared during the procedure. BP 105/60 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 80 bpm. Baseline SpO2 97%. Afebrile. Oropharynx slightly hyperemic. No jugular venous engorgement. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic sounds without murmurs or extratonos. Pulmonary auscultation: minimal scattered wheezing, no hypoventilation. Abdomen: nondescript. Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Initial ECG: sinus rhythm at 62 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS with axis at +80o. Up to 4 mm ST-segment elevation in inferior leads, V4-V6, with V1-V3 descent and in high lateral leads. ECG at 60 min (on arrival in the cath lab): sinus rhythm at 54 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, small Q wave in inferior leads with R>S in V2. ST isoelectric in all leads, negative T wave in III and aVF. Chest X-ray on admission: normal cardiomediastinal silhouette. Calcified aortic atheromatosis. No signs of acute haemodynamic decompensation, nor images suggesting pulmonary condensation. Echocardioscopy: preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), hypokinesia of basal and medial anterolateral and lateral segments. No mechanical complications or pericardial effusion. Echocardiogram: non-dilated left atrium. Fine mitral valve, slight posterior annular calcification that does not restrict valve opening. Minimal central insufficiency. Normal filling pressures. Left ventricle not dilated (VTDVI 4C 114 cm3, VTSVI 4C 44 cm3), nor hypertrophied. Biplane LVEF 59.7% without clear alterations in segmental contractility. Trivalve aortic valve, normal flow. Aortic root not dilated. Non-dilated right chambers with normal contractility (TAPSE 28). Tricuspid valve with normal flow. No indirect evidence of pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion. Urgent coronary angiography (29/06/2018): right dominance. Ischaemic heart disease with severe stenosis of obtuse marginal ostioproximal large-calibre ostial artery (artery responsible for infarction) due to severely calcified plaque and severe stenosis of proximal-medial anterior descending artery. Percutaneous coronary intervention on severe stenosis of CX-MO by means of PTCA with conventional balloons, cutting balloon and rotational atherectomy. Subsequent implantation of a zotarolimus-eluting drug-eluting stent with good angiographic results. Second-time coronary angiography (06/07/2018): good result of the drug-eluting stent implanted on CX-MO. Percutaneous coronary intervention on long calcified plaque in proximal-middle anterior descending coronary artery by means of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and implantation of zotarolimus-eluting drug-eluting stent. Blood tests on admission to the ward: haemogram: Hb 13.1 g/dl; Hct 37.5%; leukocytes 7.3 mil/mm3; platelets 163 mil/mm3. Biochemistry: basal glucose 159 mg/dl; glycated Hb 9.6%, urea 0.33 g/l, creatinine 1 mg/dl, glomerular filtration rate estimated by CKD-EPI 76 ml/min/1.73m2, total cholesterol 131 mg/dl, triglycerides 200 mg/dl, HDL-c 30 mg/dl, LDL-c 61 mg/dl, AST 27 U/l, ALT 30 U/l, GGT 28 U/l, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium 4.4 mEq/l. ESR 29 mm (0-20). CRP 1.86 mg/dl. Complement factors C3 and C4 normal. Normal circulating immunocomplexes. Allergy tests: skin tests to common trophoallergens. Negative to (profilin and LTP), soya, latex and anisakis. Total IgE value: 184 IU/ml (0-180). Tryptase value (29/06/2018 IAM day): 14 mcg/ml (0-10). Tryptase value (02/07/2018): 6.03 mcg/ml (0-10). Specific IgE: Pru p 3: < 0.1 ku/l (peach protein) (0-0.35), bee venom < 0.1 ku/l (0-0.35); vespula wasp venom 0.2 ku/l (0-0.35), polistes wasp 1.78 (0-0.35), poliste dominulus 3.76 ku/l (0-0.35). Prick test against diclofenac positive. Maximum myocardial necrosis markers: TnTus 338 ng/l (0-14); CPK 97 U/l (39-308), CK-MB 21 U/l (5-24).

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On arrival at the haemodynamics ward of our centre, the ECG normalised, the chest pain practically disappeared, although some discomfort and regional contractility anomalies persisted as assessed by echocardioscopy, as well as a great improvement in the anaphylactoid reaction. Urgent coronary angiography revealed severe stenosis in an ostioproximal marginal branch with distal TIMI 2-3 flow, in addition to another severe lesion in the LAD. Given the characteristics of the Cx-MO lesion, the intervention was complex, requiring PTCA with cutting balloons and even rotational atherectomy. Despite this, a drug-eluting stent was implanted with good angiographic results. After the procedure, the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), where he made a very favourable evolution. Suspicion of possible Kounis syndrome type II led to a request for a tryptase blood test, which was positive. After 36 hours in the ICU, where he presented no complications, and without significant elevation of myocardial necrosis markers, he was transferred to the cardiology ward. During admission to the ward she did not present any further episodes of chest pain. Second-time coronary angiography was performed on a severe lesion of the LAD, and another drug-eluting stent was implanted. A regular echocardiogram was performed, showing only slight alterations in LV segmental contractility. The patient was assessed by the allergology department, who performed an analytical study and found normal tryptase, elevated values of specific IgE against wasp venom and a skin test that was positive for diclofenac. Given the good evolution, he was discharged, pending completion of the study and assessment of the need for immunotherapy against wasp venom, which he decided to undergo in his country of origin.

DIAGNOSIS
Non-Q Killip I allergic infarction in the context of anaphylactic shock: Kounis syndrome type II. Coronary artery disease of 2 main vessels (anterior descending [AD], circumflex [Cx]) with complete revascularisation. Preserved LVEF at discharge. Anaphylactic shock probably secondary to diclofenac. Sensitisation to wasp venom. Type II diabetes mellitus.
