HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
Allergies to metamizole and tonopan (dihydroergotamine mesylate/caffeine/propifenazone). Cardiovascular risk factors: hypercholesteronemia. No diabetes mellitus or known hypertension. Smoker. Sedentary life in relation to joint problems in both MMII. Perthes disease (right hip cup arthroplasty). Left ankle fracture with prosthesis implant. Tonsillectomy. Usual treatment: No previous usual treatment.

Present illness
Patient aged 44 years who, while eating at home, began to experience deviation of the corner of her mouth to the left and speech disturbance. The SAMU was notified and in the initial assessment they obtained a score of 3 on the NIHSS scale and observed ECG alterations with bouts of bigeminy and T wave inversion, especially in the lateral face. The patient denied chest pain, dyspnoea, paraesthesia or neurovegetative symptoms.

Physical examination
During her stay in the ED, her general condition was acceptable. Well hydrated and perfused. BP 107/70 mmHg, HR 111 bpm, RR 18 rpm. Eupneic at rest with basal SatO2 98%. Carotids without murmurs. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds with mitral murmur. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, without aggregates. Soft, non-painful, depressible abdomen. No oedema in the lower extremities or evidence of DVT (painful, reddened area on the left ankle). Neurological examination: mild expressive aphasia (difficulties in naming some objects with occasional paraphasia, with preserved comprehension). No dysarthria. Right hemianopsia. No ophthalmoparesis. Mild right central facial paresis. No obvious motor or sensory deficits. Normal cerebellum. NIHSS scale 6.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Admission electrocardiogram: sinus tachycardia at 115 bpm. PR segment 90 ms (pre-excitation), incomplete right bundle branch block. Alterations in repolarisation characterised by ST underleveling and negative T waves of V3-V6 and DII,DIII and aVF. QTc > 500. Chest X-ray: cardiac silhouette respected. No evidence of pulmonary congestion. Laboratory: haemoglobin 15.5 g/dL. Leukocytes 11,590 (N 68.4%). Platelets 249,000. Biochemistry: glucose 109 mg/dl, urea 11 mg/dl, creatinine 0.57 mg/dl, sodium 136 mmol/l, potassium 3.7 mmol/l. Coagulation normal with INR 0.97. Biomarkers: creatine kinase 57 U/L (normal 24-195). Troponin T 36 ng/L (< 14 negative). Homocysteine 19.3 μmol/L. Lupus anticoagulant SCT-C: 1.34 (high).

Cardiac monitoring: no arrhythmic events of interest, in sinus rhythm at all times. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) on admission: left ventricle neither hypertrophic nor dilated. LVEF slightly affected visu visu with akinesia of all apical segments and compensatory hypercontractility of the basal segments. Intraventricular gradient up to 64 mmHg. Right chambers of normal size and function. Moderate mitral regurgitation due to SAM. Normofunctioning aortic valve. No pericardial effusion. Vena cava not dilated. Multimodal cranial CT scan on admission: no haemorrhages were observed. Slight loss of left hemispheric sulcus of temporal predominance without clear representation of hypodense areas, except in a doubtful way in the deepest region of the left sylvian valley. ASPECTS 9-10. Perfusion: extensive cortical ischaemic lesion of the left temporal lobe and extending towards the parietal lobe with extensive areas of decreased flow and volume, showing little mismatch. Only the highest area at the level of the parietal lobe is spared. Angio-CT: no alterations in the caudal outflow of the supra-aortic trunks. Permeable vertebrae. Carotid territories without significant alterations. Proximal obstruction of the left M2 parietal branch, with scarce collaterals. Incidentally, an incipient aneurysmal ectasia is seen in the most distal region of the right middle cerebral artery at the level of its bifurcation. Perfusion angio-CT scan: extensive cortical ischaemic lesion affecting the left temporal lobe and extending into the parietal lobe with extensive areas of decreased flow and volume, reflecting low mismatch. The anterior two thirds of the infarct is low and only the highest area at the level of the parietal lobe is respected. CT of coronary arteries: no abnormalities are observed in the origin of the coronary arteries. TCI normal without lesions DA normal without lesions. Superficial intramyocardial tract of 14 mm in the middle third. Cx of small calibre and development, without lesions. OM developed, without lesions. Normal DC without lesions. Right dominance. Trivalve aortic valve. Mild pericardial effusion. Calcification of a middle dorsal intervertebral disc. Conclusion: coronary arteries without lesions. Echocardiogram in consultation, after discharge: normal.

EVOLUTION
Patient aged 44 years with smoking and dyslipidaemia as known risk factors, admitted as a Code Ictus, having received treatment with intravenous fibrinolysis within the protocol, and with evidence of occlusion in left parietal M2 subsequently recanalised. Control neuroimaging studies showed subacute ischaemia of the infarcted territory, as well as petechial haemorrhagic transformation and oedema. At the same time, the patient presented striking alterations in the ECG, with pathological TTE in the emergency department characterised by akinesia of all the apical segments and compensatory hypercontractility of the basal segments with suspicion of probable stress cardiopathy, for which reason CT angiography of the coronary arteries was performed, which showed no significant lesions. The control TTE showed normalisation of segmental contractility. In the aetiological study there was no evidence of a cardioembolic or vascular source with evanescent occlusion of the vessel. In the analytical study, lupus anticoagulant was detected, coinciding chronologically with an active infection at the level of the left ankle. On discharge, lupus anticoagulant and thrombophilia studies by haematology were pending confirmation; antiplatelet treatment and statins were prescribed. As a sequel, she persists with mild mixed dysphasia undergoing speech therapy.

DIAGNOSIS
Ischaemic stroke in the left middle cerebral artery territory (M2). Stress cardiomyopathy in relation to acute neurological process.
