HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
No drug allergies. No cardiovascular risk factors. Cardiovascular history: none. Other: not of interest. Usual treatment: denied. Family history: not of interest. Two healthy children.

Present illness
She presented after a fall with rib trauma and fracture of several ribs. Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly and alteration of the aortic arch, so on-call cardiology was notified. On questioning, the patient reported a previous episode of dizziness on exertion without loss of consciousness. She denied dyspnoea, chest pain, haemoptysis or other associated symptoms. She has two children born vaginally without complications.

Physical examination
Heart rate 83 bpm, oxygen saturation 98% at baseline and 95% when walking 300 metres. Cardiac auscultation: systolic murmur at the left sternal border. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur without added noise. Lower extremities: no oedema. Minimal acropacities.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests: haemoglobin 13.8 g/dl, platelets 21 x1000/μl; NT-proBNP 230 pg/ml, troponin T hs: 5.5 ng/l. Rest without relevant findings. Chest X-ray: fracture of the right posterior eighth arch and probable fracture of the seventh and ninth arch associated with right effusion, probable haemothorax given the rib fractures. Cardiomegaly, alteration in the morphology of the superior mediastinum suggesting alteration in the arrangement of the aortic arch. Likewise, given the cardiac morphology, pericardial effusion should be ruled out if there is no history of congenital heart disease. No previous studies are available for comparison. Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 70 bpm. Normal PR. Wide QRS left axis. Complete right bundle branch block and evidence of right ventricular hypertrophy. Anterior left bundle branch hemiblock. Portable transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle of normal size, thickness and function. Severely dilated right ventricle (64 mm basal diameter), hypertrophic, with preserved function. Biauricular dilatation, greater right atrial dilatation. There is a large ostium primum type atrial septal defect with bidirectional flow. Mitral valve with cleft and moderate mitral insufficiency (grade III). Dysplastic tricuspid valve with moderate severe tricuspid regurgitation (grade III). Estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 62+5 mmHg. Mild pulmonary insufficiency. Pulmonary acceleration time of 81 msec without mesosystolic notch. Trivalve aortic valve without stenosis or insufficiency. Mild circumferential pericardial effusion.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
It was proposed that the patient be admitted to hospital to complete the study (right heart catheterisation and cardiopulmonary exercise test) and to consider starting pulmonary vasodilator treatment, but for personal reasons the patient refused, preferring to opt for outpatient management. Unfortunately, the patient never attends the outpatient appointments and the study is never completed.

DIAGNOSIS
Incomplete atrioventricular canal of new diagnosis.
Suspicion of pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with uncorrected congenital heart disease.
