HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
72-year-old woman with a history of permanent atrial fibrillation, anticoagulated with acenocoumarol, without structural heart disease in previous echocardiograms.
She consulted for months of chest pain on exertion compatible with typical angina on usual exertion. Acetylsalicylic acid was started and ambulatory exercise testing was requested. No findings on initial physical examination. Admitted for coronary angiography due to ergometry findings.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm, narrow QRS with normal axis, normal repolarisation.
Blood tests: biochemistry and haemogram parameters in range. Myocardial damage markers not elevated.
Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. No mediastinal widening.
No acute pleuroparenchymal pathology.
Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE): left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophic.
Normal segmental contractility and systolic function. Mitral filling with normal pattern for his age. Normal right ventricle and atria. Aneurysm of the interatrial septum without evidence of shunt by Doppler. No significant valvulopathies. Estimated PSP of 21 mmHg. No pericardial effusion.
Ergometry: stopped at minute 3 of the Bruce protocol due to limiting angina.
Clinically positive (anginal chest pain and dyspnoea) from minute 1:30, which becomes limiting at minute 3 and persists on recovery for 3 minutes.
Electrically negative to charges reached. No arrhythmias. Normal blood pressure response. Severely limited functional class (4 METS).
Coronary angiography: common trunk: no lesions. Anterior descending artery: vessel of good calibre and development, with calcium, without significant stenosis. Bordering the tip.
Circumflex artery. Non-dominant, without significant lesions. Right coronary artery: severely calcified from the ostium to the distal segment, with subtotal stenosis at the beginning of the middle segment and distal TIMI 2 flow. The distal vessel receives heterocoronary collateral circulation.

EVOLUTION
After performing diagnostic coronary angiography, in the presence of critical stenosis of the right coronary artery with reduced flow, ad hoc angioplasty was decided, administering clopidogrel in the haemodynamics room. An attempt was made to cross the lesion with guidewires with increasing crossing and penetration capacity, given that the lesion behaved like a chronic occlusion (BMW, Miracle 3, Pilot 150 and Confianza Pro). Support is increased with a 1.5F coaxial balloon catheter, but only a false lumen is achieved, causing dissection with an image of contrast retention in the arterial wall, without images suggestive of leakage and with complete occlusion of the artery at the level of the lesion.
The patient noted slight precordial pressure which subsided with 2 mg of Cl morphine. No changes were observed in the 12-lead ECG at the end of the procedure. She also presented generalised rash, suggesting allergy to iodinated contrast agent, which appeared to be controlled after administration of intravenous corticosteroid and antihistamine. He was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit for close monitoring, and an urgent transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, showing normal biventricular systolic function with no significant findings (highlighting the absence of pericardial effusion). The evolution was favourable, with no recurrence of chest pain, with progressive resolution of the allergic symptoms and with discrete elevation of biomarkers without changes in serum levels, and the patient was transferred to the conventional hospital ward the following day. Neither double antiplatelet therapy nor anticoagulation was suspended, given that the information transmitted was of occlusive coronary dissection and not perforation.
Forty-eight hours after the procedure, the patient reported chest pain that initially appeared to have an angina profile, with constants in range, so an ECG was performed with no signs of ischaemia and intravenous NTG perfusion was started, with subsequent arterial hypotension, general malaise and signs of hypoperfusion, which persisted despite withdrawal of NTG. Urgent TTE was performed, showing pericardial effusion with echocardiographic signs of tamponade, an image suggestive of fibrin deposition at the level of the right AV groove and dyskinesia of the basal portion of the right ventricular free wall. Serum therapy was started, the patient was transferred back to the Coronary Unit and urgent pericardiocentesis was performed with extraction of fluid with a haematic appearance until stabilisation, with subsequent drainage and suspension of antithrombotic treatment. New instability a few hours after placing the pericardial drain, with electromechanical dissociation, with echocardiographic evidence of retapositioning that persisted despite repositioning the drain, with the need for orotracheal intubation due to a low level of consciousness. Cardiac surgery was contacted for urgent surgical pericardial drainage and the time interval was used to perform a transesophageal echocardiogram with the same findings in the right AV groove and basal portion of the RV, without loss of continuity or evidence of flow through the RV myocardium. After pericardial drainage and evacuation of abundant haematic fluid by median sternotomy, a large thrombus was observed adhered to the right AV groove with no active bleeding and haematoma in the basal region of the RV free wall and in the RA, suggestive of dissection of the right AV groove. On leaving the operating theatre, the patient persisted with great haemodynamic instability, so TTE was repeated, ruling out cardiac tamponade but showing severe RV dysfunction with extension of dyskinesia and hyper-refringence to mid-basal portions of the RV free wall, leading to severe systolic dysfunction of the same. Finally, the indication for circulatory assistance was ruled out and it was decided to limit therapeutic effort, and the patient died within a short period of time.

DIAGNOSIS
Coronary dissection versus iatrogenic perforation by angioplasty guidewire of the right AV groove.
Acute cardiac tamponade.
RV free wall haematoma with acute severe dysfunction.
