HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
An 8-month-old infant with no history of interest was referred to the outpatient cardiology department of our centre by her paediatrician after a murmur was found during a check-up. No medical treatment, except for the vitamin D supplement indicated by protocol.
The mother reported that the patient presented fatigue during feedings. The patient's staturo-ponderal development was normal and the examination revealed no cyanosis or respiratory tugging; peripheral pulses were preserved and the presence of a systolic murmur in mitral focus II/VI was confirmed.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
The electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 150 beats per minute with signs of left chamber enlargement and the consultation echocardiogram showed significant mitral regurgitation (MR), and a regular transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was requested.
The TTE showed situs solitus, levocardia, atrioventricular and ventricular-arterial concordance, with a dilated left ventricle after adjusting for weight and height, with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) despite mild inferior hypokinesia: diastolic diameter (DD): 42 mm; systolic diameter (SD) 28 mm; LVEF: 62%. The left atrium was very dilated, with bulging of the interatrial septum towards the right atrium and left-right shunt through the foramen ovale. We observed massive MR due to lack of mitral leaflet coaptation secondary to posterior leaflet retraction with a significant gap between the two leaflets. In addition, both papillary muscles and the chordae tendineae showed increased echogenicity, suggestive of fibroelastosis.
During the study of the pulmonary artery (PA) we observed a diastolic flow with colour Doppler at this level, together with the presence of multiple intramyocardial diastolic flows both in the right ventricle and at the septal level. Pulmonary systolic pressure was 30 mmHg. All these findings in the TTE led us to suspect a possible anomalous coronary origin from the PA, and we requested a coronary CT scan.
The coronary CT confirmed the suspicion, visualising the left main coronary artery emerging from the PA.

EVOLUTION
After the diagnosis of ALCAPA (Anomalous Left Coronary Artery from the Pulmonary Artery), also called Bland-White-Garland syndrome, the case was presented at a medical-surgical session, and it was decided to intervene by means of coronary reimplantation and repair surgery on the mitral valve, due to the fact that the lesions present in the mitral valve apparatus visualised with TTE suggested little expectation of improvement after isolated coronary reimplantation.
The intervention was performed via sternotomy, confirming the exit of the left main coronary artery from the PA. Resection of the left coronary button with anastomosis to the posterior wall of the ascending aorta and closure of the PA was performed.
This was followed by mitral plasty with suturing of the anterior commissure to one third of the mitral valve and suturing of the posterior leaflet pseudo-cleft, the latter probably because the dilatation of the mitral annulus caused excessive separation of the indentations dividing the different scallops of the posterior leaflet.
Postoperative TTE showed a significant reduction in MR, from massive to moderate, and in ventricular diameters
Our patient evolved favourably during her admission and was discharged 1 week later, remaining asymptomatic during follow-up.
The 6-month follow-up TTE showed a marked improvement from baseline, with a significant reduction in ventricular diameters (DD: 31 mm; SD: 21 mm), persistence of a normal LVEF (61%) and reduction in left atrial volume. MR was classified as mild and no significant stenosis was observed after mitral plication (mean transmitral gradient of 4 mmHg).
Both PA diastolic flow and intramyocardial flows disappeared, and we found no significant PA gradient.

DIAGNOSIS
ALCAPA (Anomalous Left Coronary Artery from the Pulmonary Artery or Bland-White-Garland Syndrome).
Secondary severe mitral insufficiency.
Coronary reimplantation surgery and mitral plasty.
