HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
64-year-old male, ex-smoker, with a history of long-standing arterial hypertension and suboptimal control, treated with ACE inhibitors and diuretics. He had a heart murmur since childhood, "functional". The first non-invasive imaging study was performed in 2007, due to a radiological finding of cardiomegaly on chest X-ray, in the context of a study of hypertensive crisis in the emergency department. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed showing severe concentric left ventricular hypertrophy without dilatation of the cavity and with good systolic function (ejection fraction 72%). The mitral valve is congenitally defective, with a "parachute" arrangement, anterior leaflet prolapse and single posteromedial papillary muscle. All this leads to a double functional alteration with mild stenosis (effective area 2.5 cm2; mean gradient 4 mmHg) and moderate (III/IV) eccentric insufficiency. The aortic valve is bicuspid, with a slightly restricted antero-posterior opening (intercoronary fusion) (systolic doming; maximum transvalvular gradient of 35 mm Hg and effective area by continuity equation of 1.9 cm2). No diastolic prolapse or regurgitation was observed. The aortic root and ascending aorta are of normal diameters. The right chambers are structurally and functionally normal, with no evidence of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Flow analysis of the abdominal and descending thoracic aorta showed data suggestive of aortic coarctation (diastolic prolongation and gradient in the descending aorta reaching a systolic peak of 107 mmHg). In view of these findings, MRI was requested to assess the suspected aortic alterations. This study confirmed the presence of coarctation of the aorta with stenosis distal to the exit of the left subclavian artery with a minimum diameter of 7 mm (pre-stenosis, 18 mm; post-stenosis, 27 mm). In addition, an aberrant right subclavian artery is observed leaving the area of the coarctation with a retroesophageal course. With a confirmed diagnosis of incomplete Shone's syndrome (parachute mitral valve, bicuspid aortic valve, aortic coarctation), the surgical option was considered (2008), which the patient initially rejected due to his good functional status and absence of symptoms. He maintained regular outpatient check-ups for the next four years. However, the progression of the functional grade (grade II) and the appearance of angina made it necessary to go to the emergency department, from where he was admitted to our department (08/2012).

Physical examination
Good general condition. Not hydrated, normal colour. Height within normal limits (1.75 cm), with adequate development of limbs and secondary sexual characteristics. Skin without lesions, fragility or bruising. No visual defects or other syndromic stigmata. Blood pressure figures in right upper limb: 160/140, similar to lower limbs, left upper limb: 200/105, heart rate: 90 bpm. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, with pansystolic murmur III/VI aortic with preserved S2; systolic murmur II-III/VI mitral and systodiastolic murmur in the left dorsal region. Abdomen: nondescript, no abdominal murmur. Lower extremities: symmetrical femoral pulses, but less intense than the humeral and radial pulses, pedial pulses present, no oedema.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood count, biochemistry and coagulation: normal. Electrocardiogram. Chest X-ray.
Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiogram (14/8/2012): slight dilatation (25 cm2) of the left atrium. Bicuspid aortic valve, with thickening of both leaflets and slight calcification (mainly at the level of the raphe) that homogeneously restricts mobility and causes a moderate reduction in systolic opening, without significant aortic insufficiency. Severe concentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle without dilatation of the cavity and with good systolic function. In the left ventricular outflow tract there is a fibrous bundle with a maximum thickness of 9 mm. As a whole (aortic valve and subaortic bundle), there is a severe obstruction to the left ventricular outflow tract (maximum velocity: 4.12 m/s, mean gradient: 41 mmhg). Parachute mitral valve with diffuse thickening of both leaflets and prolapse of the anterior leaflet, leading to severe mitral insufficiency (IV/IV) directed eccentrically and with Coanda effect towards the posterior and lateral wall of the left atrium; the regurgitant jet enters the pulmonary veins and reverses the systolic component of the antegrade flow. Descending thoracic aorta with post-stromal narrowing and acceleration of systolic flow as evidenced by colour Doppler. Doppler analysis shows a pattern of systolic acceleration with a peak gradient of 80 mmHg, without diastolic prolongation. Coronary angiography (performed via the right femoral artery due to the impossibility of progression to the radial access): left coronary tree without lesions. Severe proximal stenosis of the right coronary artery. Aberrant right subclavian artery with retroesophageal trajectory from descending aorta (distal to coarctation). Pressures in ascending aorta 166/73 and descending aorta 104/64. Angio-CT scan of thoracic aorta: aortic coarctation immediately distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery, with a diameter of 9.5 x 12 mm at the narrowest point. Anatomical variant of aberrant right subclavian artery originating distal to the coarctation, with a clearly smaller calibre than the left subclavian artery. There is no visualisation of intercostal artery hypertrophy. There is some hypertrophy of the left mammary artery. Renal artery aneurysms, the largest of which is 10 mm in diameter, with calcium and mural thrombus. Bilateral simple renal cysts. Calcifications in the aortic valve.

EVOLUTION
Given that the hypertension was severe, treatment was started with calcium antagonists, ARAII, beta-blockers, diuretics, doxazosin, nitrates and antilipemiant drugs.
The case was presented at a medical-surgical session and was accepted for surgery. After evaluating the different surgical options, it was finally decided to replace the valve at first, and then to treat the coarctation of the aorta by means of endovascular therapy or surgery. During the entire hospital stay, the patient remained without new episodes of chest pain, with good control of blood pressure, and was discharged with a good functional level. Once the diagnosis and comorbidities had been established, treatment was started, addressing different objectives which, in the present patient, merited adequate control. Severe arterial hypertension is controlled by means of a pharmacological combination that includes calcium antagonists, ARAII, beta-blockers, diuretics and doxazosin. Statins are added as secondary prevention of ischaemic heart disease and nitrates for symptomatic relief of angina. It was decided to surgically intervene the different elements that make up this complex congenital heart disease. The approach included initially treating the left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (valve replacement and impeller resection) and deferring the approach to the coarctation to a later stage, either by surgery or by percutaneous intervention. On 15/3/2013 he underwent surgery using extracorporeal circulation (total CPB time 171 minutes; ischaemia time 137 minutes) and antegrade and retrograde perfusion. Double valve replacement was performed (metal prosthesis No 23 in supra-annular aortic position and metal prosthesis No 27 in mitral position, without preservation of mitral leaflets) and resection of the subaortic leaflet. In the immediate postoperative period he remained dependent on amines and with complete AV block. He subsequently developed atrial fibrillation associated with right bundle branch block and enzyme peak in the necrosis range (3967 ngr/l), which was interpreted as perioperative infarction, without haemodynamic repercussions. He required blood pressure control with ACE inhibitors and doxazosin to maintain cerebral and splanchnic blood pressure at therapeutic targets (110/70 and 170/80 mmHg, respectively). The control echocardiogram (in sinus rhythm) shows prosthetic normofunction and preserved ejection fraction, so it is possible to be discharged on the tenth postoperative day, with the aforementioned antihypertensive treatment and statins, as well as permanent oral anticoagulation (acenocoumarol). At present, her blood pressure control remains suboptimal and her functional grade (II) limits her daily activities to some extent. He is awaiting percutaneous repair of the coarctation (angioplasty and stent implantation), which was accepted by the medical-surgical team and by the patient at his last outpatient check-up (09/01/2014)

DIAGNOSIS
Complex congenital heart disease with serial stenosis of the left ventricle flow: incomplete Shone's syndrome. Single posteromedial papillary muscle. Parachute mitral valve with anterior leaflet prolapse and double lesion: mild stenosis and severe insufficiency. Subaortic stenosis: moderate subvalvular aortic stenosis. Schaeffer's type 1 bicuspid aortic valve: moderate aortic stenosis. Yuxtaductal aortic coarctation (adult type) with severe obstruction to aortic flow. Aberrant right subclavian artery with origin in postductal aorta. Secondary arterial hypertension with suboptimal control. Coronary artery disease with severe stenosis of proximal right coronary artery. Renal artery aneurysms.
