HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
26-year-old male, high-intensity sportsman, firefighter by profession. No family history of heart disease or sudden death (SD) at an early age. No known drug allergies. No smoker or drinker. No consumption of other toxic substances. No known cardiovascular risk factors. No medical illnesses or surgical interventions of interest. No chronic treatment.

Current illness
Patient attended the emergency department in March 2020 for an episode of dizziness associated with loss of vision and a fall to the floor while at rest, while making a sudden neck twisting movement, without knowing whether she lost consciousness. Immediate recovery with no post-critical period, no sphincter relaxation or tonic-clonic movements. She reported that this was the first time this symptomatology had occurred, denying previous syncopal episodes or palpitations.

Physical examination
General state of health. Well hydrated and perfused. Athletic build. Eupneic at rest. Oxygen saturation 99% without oxygen therapy. Blood pressure (BP) 125/65 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 55 bpm. No jugular ingurgitation. No adenopathies. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, at a good frequency. No murmurs or audible extratonos.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen: soft, non-painful, no masses or megaliths. Lower limbs: no oedema or signs of venous insufficiency or deep vein thrombosis. Distal pulses present and symmetrical

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus bradycardia at 55 bpm, normal axis, short PR with marked pre-excitation (positive delta wave in I, inferior face and from V1-V6, negative in avL), wide QRS due to initial filling with RsR' morphology in V1 with marked repolarisation alterations with ST underleveling and negative T waves in II, III, aVF and V1-V6. Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. No images suggestive of condensation. Free costophrenic sinuses. Normal lung parenchyma. CBC: haemoglobin 14.6 g/dl, leucocytes 7200/microl (67% PMN), platelets 365,000/microl. Coagulation: PT 80%. Biochemistry: creatinine 0.67 mg/dl, urea 28 mg/dl, ions normal. Hepatobiliary profile and thyroid hormones normal. Echocardiogram (videos 1 and 2): left ventricle not dilated, without ventricular hypertrophy but showing marked hypertrabeculation especially at the apical, lower apical, middle and lateral apical levels, with numerous intraventricular recesses which are checked by colour Doppler for communication with the ventricular cavity. LVEF at the limit of normality (LVEFbp 55%). No segmental contractility disorders. Left ventricular (LV) diastolic function: normal transmitral pattern with E/A ratio 1.4 and TDE 296 ms. Normal filling pressures (average E/E ́ 8, lateral E ́ 16 cm/s, medial E ́ 8.5 cm/s, LA < 34 ml/m2, IT < 2.8 m/s). Right ventricle of normal size with normal systolic function (TAPSE 23 mm). Normal left atrium. Normal right atrium. Normal size thoracic aorta. No valvulopathies. Pericardium without relevant findings. No intracavitary masses or thrombi. Inferior vena cava of adequate calibre and respiratory dynamics. Ergometry: Bruce MET protocol: 24. Excellent functional capacity. The test was stopped when the target heart rate (HR) was reached. No chest pain or dyspnoea during exercise. No dynamic changes suggestive of ischaemia. During the entire tracing, there was overt pre-excitation with secondary repolarisation alterations, which disappeared when the heart rate reached 170 bpm and the repolarisation alterations disappeared. Subsequently, during recovery, the patient remained without pre-excitation and without repolarisation alterations due to probable exhaustion of the accessory pathway. There were no arrhythmic events of interest. Adequate tension and chronotropic response. Conclusions: clinically and electrically negative for ischaemia. Pre-excitation that disappears at 170 bpm. Holter: RS study with HR between 24-43-95 bpm. Maximum pause of 3.7 seconds, intermittent pre-excitation. Occasional nodal rhythm. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR): left ventricle (LV) slightly dilated with marked trabeculation of the myocardium, on all sides except the septum and basal segments that show less trabeculae. The ratio of non-compacted myocardium to compacted myocardium (NCM/CM) is greater than 2.3 with a maximum value of 4.3 in several segments. Global and segmental mobility are preserved. The EF measured with the Simpson method is 62%. VTDVI of 243 ml, indexed by body surface area of 124 ml/m2, VTSVI of 91.6 ml, indexed by body surface area of 47 ml/m2. Cardiac output of 10 l/min. There were deep crypts located at the inferior junction of both ventricles, another in the middle anteroseptal segment and the third at the level of the apical inferior segment. The right ventricle is neither dilated nor hypertrophic, with marked hypertrabeculation. Global and segmental mobility preserved. The EF measured with the Simpson method is 66%. Both atria are of normal size. The first-pass perfusion sequence shows no perfusion defect at rest. Late enhancement/viability sequence does not show gadolinium retention suggesting necrosis and/or fibrosis. Conclusion: non-compaction cardiomyopathy with involvement of both ventricles. Preserved biventricular function. Slight LV dilatation. Absence of fibrosis. ECG after ablation: sinus tachycardia at 105 bpm, normal axis, PR 146 ms, narrow QRS, non-pathological q wave in inferior face, ST rectification in inferior face and V5-V6 with negative T in inferior face, normal QTc.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was assessed in the emergency department by the cardiology service in the event of a syncopal episode, and an electrocardiogram was performed in sinus rhythm with short PR and a marked positive delta wave in inferior aspect and V1-V6 and negative in aVL, thus giving the impression of a left lateral accessory pathway. Laboratory tests and chest X-ray were performed, compatible with normality, as well as echocardiography showing a non-dilated left ventricle but with marked hypertrabeculation at the apical, apical lateral and lower middle and apical levels, with numerous recesses communicating with the ventricular cavity, with preserved LVEF, right ventricle of normal morphology and function and no significant valvulopathies (videos 1 and 2). Given the suspicion of non-compaction cardiomyopathy with left lateral accessory pathway, studies were completed with genetic study and screening of first-degree relatives and CMR (images 2, 3 and 4) which confirmed the presence of non-compaction cardiomyopathy with biventricular involvement, more marked in the left ventricle, which was slightly dilated and affected in all segments except the septum and basal segments, with a maximum ratio between non-compacted and compacted myocardium of 4.3. There are deep crypts located at the inferior junction of both ventricles, another in the mid anteroseptal segment and the third at the level of the apical inferior segment. The rest of the study was compatible with normality, with preserved biventricular systolic function and no fibrosis in the late enhancement sequence. The patient was referred to the arrhythmia and electrophysiology unit and underwent ergometry, reaching 24 METs, without arrhythmic events during the test and with marked pre-excitation during the start of the test, which disappeared when 170 bpm was reached, and remained without pre-excitation during recovery. A 24-hour Holter monitor was also performed, which showed the presence of intermittent pre-excitation but no arrhythmic events of interest. Based on the above, it was decided to perform an electrophysiological study (EPS) in May 2020, and programmed stimulation was performed with the finding of concentric decremental anterograde conduction at baseline (and, therefore, through the specific conduction system) which became eccentric and with an earlier ventriculogram at the left lateral level after infusion of isoproterenol (via the accessory pathway). Similarly, atrioventricular dissociation is observed at 600 ms in programmed retrograde pacing from the right ventricular apex, which changes to concentric decremental retrograde conduction after isoproterenol infusion. The anterograde refractory period of the pathway is measured and is 240 ms after isoproterenol infusion. No tachycardias are induced after baseline programmed atrial and ventricular pacing and after isoproterenol. Mitral annulus mapping was performed by retroaortic access, with radiofrequency ablation at the left anterolateral level, and ablation was effective with disappearance of pre-excitation in 2.5 seconds.

After ablation, the patient continued subsequent follow-up in the arrhythmia and electrophysiology unit, remaining asymptomatic in NYHA functional class I and without events in serial Holter monitoring, in sinus rhythm without pre-excitation in the baseline ECG although maintaining marked alterations in ventricular repolarisation. In October 2020, the results of the genetic study were obtained, identifying a previously undescribed variant in the ACTC1 gene (p.Pro260Leu), which could be associated with the patient's phenotype (non-compaction cardiomyopathy), although more information is needed to confirm this, and screening of first-degree relatives has yet to be completed.

DIAGNOSIS
Non-compaction cardiomyopathy with biventricular involvement and preserved systolic function. Slight dilatation of the left ventricle.
Left anterolateral accessory pathway with intermittent pre-excitation. Successful ablation of the pathway by radiofrequency.
Variant of uncertain significance in the ACTC1 gene (p.Pro260Leu).
