The 67-year-old patient, with a history of hypertension and dyslipidaemia, with aortic prosthesis and pacemaker, who attended the Emergency Department for a sudden onset of right hemiparesis, dysphasia, disorientation, headache and vomiting.

History, current illness and physical examination
Personal history: 67-year-old male patient with a history of hypertension and dyslipidaemia; aortic prosthesis holder since 2004 and a normal functioning VDD pacemaker, with replacement 3 months ago.

Present illness: The patient consulted the Emergency Department for a sudden onset of right hemiparesis, dysphasia, disorientation, headache and vomiting. He refers to a history of influenza with fever measured by thermometry during the last few days.

Physical examination: On arrival at the ED, the patient was haemodynamically stable with blood pressure of 101/63 mmHg, heart rate of 77 bpm and oxygen saturation of 94% at baseline. On physical examination the patient was vigilant and alert without ophthalmoparesis or campimetric alteration due to threat. He had global dysphasia, slight deviation of the labial commissure to the left and right brachial hemiparesis 1/5, crural hemiparesis 4/5 with right extensor plantar cutaneous reflex. Cardiopulmonary auscultation revealed periprosthetic aortic sounds with mitral murmur III/VI and scattered rhonchi in both lung fields. Given the diagnosis of ischaemic stroke in the left MCA territory of non-filial origin, a stroke code was ruled out as it exceeded the window period and admission was decided for aetiological study and treatment.

Complementary tests
Given the clinical symptoms suggestive of cerebral ischaemia, during his stay in the Emergency Department, a cranial CT scan was requested, showing hypodensity in the left basal ganglia in relation to an acute ischaemic lesion in the middle cerebral artery territory.
The study in this department was completed with an ECG, the reading of which revealed a VDD pacemaker rhythm at 77 bpm; a basic blood test including haemogram and coagulation with Hb 11.9 g/dl, leukocytes 18,300 (N 92.2%), INR 5.7, FD 610 mg/dl, troponin I 894 pg/ml, CRP 157 mg/L; and a chest X-ray showing cardiomegaly, with no images of condensation or pleural effusion. Blood cultures were also taken. On admission to the ward, in view of the laboratory findings described and the history of febrile syndrome and recent pacemaker replacement, it was decided to perform urgent transthoracic echocardiography to rule out endocarditis as the aetiological focus of the cerebral infarction. The echocardiogram showed dilatation of the left atrium with preserved FEV1 without alterations in contractility and normal mitral valve. There was a dysfunctional aortic prosthesis with high gradients (peak gradient 60 mmHg, mean 35 mmHg). The peak gradient in the previous control was 30 mmHg. There is an image compatible with endocardial vegetation in its posterior disc, with thrombus density, pedunculated and sessile. Moderate pulmonary hypertension and mild tricuspid insufficiency, which had already been reported in previous studies, were described.
The echocardiographic finding was confirmed within 24 hours by transesophageal echocardiography, which showed a large vegetation of about 20 mm in the outflow tract and a large periaortic abscess open to the bloodstream extending to the interatrial septum. The appearance of the mitral valve and left ventricular function are normal. At that time, preliminary blood culture results were received showing growth of Gram-positive cocci in clusters. The definitive result was S. epidermidis.

Clinical course
This is a 67-year-old patient with AHT, DM, aortic prosthesis and VDD pacemaker who was admitted for an abrupt onset of language disorder and right hemiparesis related to ischemic stroke in CMI territory, with an INR on admission of 5.7. On admission, given the presence of leukocytosis and elevated CRP supporting the suspicion of endocarditis, an emergency transthoracic echocardiogram was performed which showed endocardial vegetation on the aortic valve, and antibiotic treatment was started with vancomycin, gentamincin and rifampicin after extraction of blood cultures. The patient had undergone a pacemaker replacement three months ago and for the last week had been experiencing general malaise, profuse sweating with fever peaks of up to 39oC, which he related to a case of influenza. A transesophageal echocardiogram was completed, confirming vegetation and open periaortic abscess, and the Cardiac Surgery Department of the referral hospital (H. Clínico Universitario de Valladolid) was contacted for transfer. During his stay in our hospital, the neurological evolution was slightly favourable with improvement of the right brachio-crural motor deficit 4/5, with persistent central facial, hemianopsia due to threat and global dysphasia. There were no signs of heart failure or arrhythmias.

Diagnosis
Given the findings described above, the final diagnosis was late prosthetic endocarditis due to Staphylococcus epid. complicated with ischaemic stroke and periaortic abscess.
