HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
49-year-old male. Cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension, very difficult to control, treated with 4 drugs, under follow-up by nephrology. No diabetes mellitus or dyslipidaemia. No toxic habits. Chronic kidney disease secondary to interstitial nephropathy due to vesicoureteral reflux with the start of haemodialysis at the age of 31 (in 1989), double kidney transplant in 1992 and 2015, both dysfunctional and embolised, currently under study for a new transplant and on haemodialysis. Multiple complications at the level of arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) (stenosis, obstruction), currently presents AVF in right upper limb. Multifactorial anaemia being treated with erythropoietin and transfusions. Resistant secondary hyperparathyroidism with renal osteodystrophy and parathyroid adenoma in the right lower lobe. No significant structural heart disease except moderate ventricular hypertrophy with normal LVEF. Chronic treatment: pantoprazole 20 mg/12 h, acfol 1 tablet/24 h, losartan 100 mg/24 h, manidipine 10 mg/24 h, metoprolol 100 mg/12 h, prednisone 2.5/24 h, carduran 4 mg/12 h, resincalcio 1 sachet/24 h, septrim 1 tablet/48 h.

Present illness
After a haemodialysis session, the patient presented with general malaise and palpitations, with haemodynamic stability. The monitor showed wide QRS tachycardia at 150 beats per minute (bpm). A 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) was performed, which was interpreted as sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (SMVT), so 4 boluses of 100 mg of procainamide were administered, and the patient progressed to an arrhythmic narrow QRS tachycardia that appeared to be atrial tachycardia and then went into sinus rhythm.   Physical examination Blood pressure 190/100, 70 bpm, saturation 98% baseline. No jugular ingurgitation. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur without over-additions. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, systolic murmur II/VI in the apex. Abdomen: soft, non-painful, with renal graft in FID. Lower extremities without oedema. Palpable and symmetrical paedial pulses.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests on admission: Biochemistry: creatinine 4.74 mg/dl, estimated glomerular filtration rate 13 ml/min/1.73, uric acid 5.04 mg/dl, triglycerides 109 mg/dl, total cholesterol 112 mg/dl, HDL 30 mg/dl, LDL 60 mg/dl, total BR < 1.20 mg/dl, AST 15 U/l, ALT 13 U/l, GGT 22 U/l, sodium 141 mmol/l, potassium 5.39 mmol/l, magnesium 1.85 mg/dl, inorganic phosphate 6.3 mg/dl, Hb A1c: 3,90%. Albumin 3080 mg/dl. TSH 1.98 peak IU/ml, free T4 1.26 ng/dl. Haemoglobin 9.5 g/dl, MCV 94 fl, MCHC 30.5 g/dl, platelets 204000, leukocytes 5990, neutrophils 3960 (66.2%), lymphocytes 570 (21.2%). Coagulation: PT 12s, ATP 79%, INR 1.17, aPTT 35.9s. Urgent blood gases after tachycardia: pH 7.480, pCO2 41 mmHg, pO2 93 mmHg, sodium 131 mmol/l, potassium 4.7 mmol/l, bicarbonate 40.5 mmol/l, oxygen saturation 97.8%. Chest X-ray on admission: normal cardiothoracic index with no signs of congestion or costophrenic sinus impingement. Calcified aorta with no other findings. Electrocardiogram (ECG) on admission: regular wide QRS tachycardia at 153 bpm with morphology of right bundle branch block (RBBB), superior axis; no fusion beats, AV dissociation or concordance in precordials. Transthoracic echocardiogram on admission: non-dilated left ventricle with moderate concentric hypertrophy and preserved global systolic function without segmental disorders. Moderately dilated left atrium. Right ventricle of normal size and preserved contractility. Mitroaortic sclerosis without repercussion (mild mitral insufficiency). Filling pattern: impaired relaxation. Minimal posterior pericardial effusion without repercussion. Normal aorta. Electrophysiological study (EPS): poor and decremental ventriculoatrial conduction. Anterograde Wenkebach point 360 ms, no overt pre-excitation with atrial stimulation; with adenosine administration there is evidence of pre-excitation at low frequencies but also simultaneous block of the pathway and atrioventricular node (AVN) (blocked P waves). Induction of atrial tachycardia is not achieved even after isoprenaline infusion. Coronary sinus mapping was performed and during bouts of pre-excitation an area of greater ventricular precocity was observed at the posterior-postero-lateral level and a pre-excitation pattern consistent (12/12) with clinical tachycardia. Transseptal puncture was performed and the mitral annulus was mapped to identify the area of maximum ventricular pre-excitation in the posterior area, requiring several applications to achieve ablation of the pathway, which was finally checked with adenosine. After adenosine, the patient presented atrial fibrillation, and electrical cardioversion was successfully performed.


CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was admitted to the cardiac intermediate care unit for monitoring. On arrival, a transthoracic echocardiogram showed concentric hypertrophy with normal global systolic function without segmental disorders. The wide QRS tachycardia tracings were initially interpreted as ventricular tachycardia originating in the posterior papillary muscle (QRS with BCRDHH morphology and superior axis), so we started treatment with oral verapamil (120 mg every 12 hours), despite which he continued to present episodes of tachycardia with wide QRS on the monitor, self-limited. Daily 12-lead ECG showed sinus rhythm at 75 bpm, with evidence of ventricular enlargement, early transition and left anterior hemiblock (HBAIHH), with a pseudo-delta wave in inferior leads and V3-V5, which was interpreted as alterations typical of ventricular hypertrophy. Two days later, an ECG was performed in sinus rhythm at 82 bpm where a clear delta wave was observed; in addition, telemetry showed more obvious pre-excitation in supraventricular extrasystoles. Although the wide QRS tachycardia was initially interpreted as SMVT, and the delta wave as a pseudo-delta wave in the context of ventricular hypertrophy, what led us to suspect a possible pre-excitation was the ECG immediately after the infusion of procainamide, in which a narrow basal QRS without a delta wave was observed, and how in the following days, without the effect of procainamide, an inconspicuous delta wave was observed in the ECGs in sinus rhythm, which became more pronounced with verapamil treatment. Given the suspicion of a left lateral accessory pathway, we performed a test with 12 mg of i.v. adenosine, which revealed pre-excitation. The case was discussed with arrhythmology and an electrophysiological study was performed, where an accessory pathway was found in the posterior portion of the mitral annulus, which was successfully ablated, and the pre-excitation disappeared in the control ECGs.

DIAGNOSIS
Pre-excited atrial tachycardia due to an accessory pathway located in the posterior portion of the mitral annulus.
Successful ablation of accessory pathway.
Hypertensive heart disease with diastolic dysfunction.
Stage V chronic kidney disease.
