BACKGROUND:
No known drug allergies. No known cardiovascular risk factors. No toxic habits. Non-ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy with severe biventricular dysfunction (LVEF 15-20%) of debut in October 2010 evolving to advanced heart failure (ergospirometry with peak oxygen consumption of 12 ml/min/kg). AF of uncertain chronology diagnosed in 2010. CHA2DS2-VASc 1 point anticoagulated with dabigatran 150 mg every 12 hours. Implantation of an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in primary prevention in January 2011, with subsequent inappropriate shocks due to episodes of AF with rapid ventricular response. Usual treatment: dabigatran 150 mg every 12 hours, bisoprolol 2.5 mg every 12 hours, spironolactone 25 mg every 24 hours, furosemide 40 mg every 12 hours, digoxin 0.25 mg half tablet every 24 hours, sildenafil 20 mg every 12 hours, periodic cycles of levosimendan and ferric carboxymaltose.

CURRENT DISEASE:
After completing the pre-transplant work-up (see complementary tests), the patient is electively listed for heart transplantation in March 2017, being then in New Yor Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II-III. One month later, on 18 April 2017, he was telephoned for scheduled admission due to the appearance of an optimal donor for heart transplantation.
He was admitted to the cardiology ward and on arrival an electrocardiogram (ECG), complete blood tests with coagulation study, chest X-ray and blood product reserve was requested. The patient was anticoagulated with dabigatran 150 mg every 12 hours, having taken the last dose on the morning of admission (< 8 hours).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Good general condition. Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Afebrile on admission. Haemodynamically stable with blood pressure (BP) 107/65 mmHg and heart rate (HR) 65 bpm. Eupneic at rest and speech with headrest at 30o. Slight jugular ingurgitation. On auscultation, arrhythmic cardiac tones without audible murmurs. Bladder murmur preserved with no added pathological sounds. Lower limbs with slight perimalleolar oedema, no signs of deep vein thrombosis. No other noteworthy findings on examination.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: AF at 53 bpm. Narrow QRS with left anterior hemiblock morphology.
Chest X-ray: significant cardiomegaly at the expense of left cavities with opening of the carinal angle above 90o, double right atrial contour and marked growth of left ventricular shadow showing a peculiar morphology of the cardiac tip in "hump" reminiscent of ventricular aneurysm. Normopositioned LAD.
Transthoracic echocardiography: severely dilated left atrium. Globular left ventricle with end-diastolic diameter of 64 mm, end-diastolic volume of 256 ml and thinned walls with non-compaction in septo-apical segments, without systolic thickening and with an overall ejection fraction of 15-20%. Thin mitral valve with good mobility and with grade II/IV regurgitation directed to the posterolateral wall. Thin trivalve aortic valve with mild regurgitation directed to the anterior mitral leaflet. Dilated right ventricle with end-diastolic diameter of 40 mm and TAPSE of 17 mm. Hypocontractility in lateral segments. Electrocatheter in the right ventricle. Moderate tricuspid regurgitation with right atrium-right ventricle gradient of 37 mmHg.
CORONARYGRAPHY: normal coronary arteries.
RIGHT CATHETERISM: right atrium 18 mmHg, right ventricle 59/18 mmHg, pulmonary artery trunk 59/35-43 mmHg, pulmonary capillary pressure 35 mmHg, transpulmonary gradient 8 mmHg, cardiac output 3.7 l/min. Peripheral vascular resistance 2.16 Wood units. Thoracic-abdominal CT scan: Noteworthy is the presence of pseudonodular hypodense areas in the liver, at the level of segment II and between segments V and VI, with unspecific characteristics that could correspond to fibrotic areas, less likely patchy steatosis.
DOPLER ultrasound of the supra-aortic trunks and lower limbs: no significant lesions.
BLOOD GROUP A. Anti-HLA I-II antibodies negative.
SEROLOGY: hepatitis C IgG negative, hepatitis A IgG positive, hepatitis B S antigen negative, anti-HBs IgG negative, anti-HBc IgG negative. Positive IgG antibodies against mumps virus, rubella, measles, herpes virus type 1, varicella zoster and cytomegalovirus. IgG toxoplasma positive, IgM toxoplasma negative. IgG tetanus positive. HIV 1-2 negative. IgG Epstein Bar virus negative, IgM negative. Syphilis screening negative.
TUMOUR MARKERS: negative.
ANALYTICS pretransplant: glucose, renal function, abdominal profile and ions normal. Haemoglobin 11.3 g/dl. HbA1c 5.5%. NT-proBNP 1297 pg/ml. Coagulation with INR 1.31, PT 14.5 seconds, TPTA 57.1 seconds, TPTA ratio 1.78. Lipid profile: total cholesterol 185 mg/dl, LDL 95 mg/dl, HDL 65 mg/dl. Normal thyroid profile.
COAGULATION TEST after idarucizumab IV infusion: INR 1.13, PT 12.4 seconds, TPTA 30.3 seconds, TPTA ratio 0.95.


CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On receiving the analytical results requested on admission, the effect of dabigatran on the patient's coagulation was confirmed by means of the TPTA (57.1 seconds) and TPTA ratio (1.78). At this point, haematology was contacted to reverse the anticoagulation, who indicated the administration of 5 g of idarucizumab IV by means of two consecutive infusions of 2.5 g/50 ml in 5-10 minutes each, with a new control 15 minutes after administration, normalising the coagulation times (TPTA 30.3 seconds and TPTA ratio 0.97). Once the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran had been reversed, surgery was performed and orthotopic heart transplantation was performed using the bicava technique. The extracorporeal surgery time is 78 minutes and the anoxia time is 60 minutes. During surgery, 3 g of fibrinogen was administered and the patient did not require transfusions of blood products. Heparinisation is reversed with protamine. Finally, two mediastinal drains were left in place and were removed 48 hours after surgery without incident. In the immediate postoperative period, the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit. He was extubated in the first 6 hours, with a favourable evolution at all times, with no bleeding complications. The usual immunosuppression protocol was started (tacrolimus + mycophenolate mofetil + prednisone). He was transferred to the cardiac transplant hospitalisation unit 72 hours after surgery and was discharged home early.

DIAGNOSIS
Scheduled admission for orthotopic heart transplant with bicava technique in a patient on the elective waiting list for non-ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy with severe biventricular dysfunction (LVEF 15-20%). Persistent anticoagulated AF (CHA2DS2-VASc 1 point, HAS-BLED 0 points).
