HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

BACKGROUND:
60-year-old patient, with a history of active smoking of 1 pack/day, dyslipidaemia, eosinophilic oesophagitis (under treatment with inhaled corticosteroids) and Tarlov's cyst with compression of left sacral roots. Family history of ischaemic heart disease.
Cardiological history: recurrent episodes of chest pain. In 2015 an ischaemia test was performed, which was negative, and subsequently a coronary CT scan showed significant coronary artery disease. Coronary angiography showed severe right circumflex and coronary artery disease, and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents was performed.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
After taking moxifloxacin for bronchitis, she presented with an episode of sudden dyspnoea with generalised pruritus and chest tightness radiating to both extremities.
She then suffered a syncopal episode. She was attended by 061 who observed: poor general condition, blood pressure (BP) 69/20, oxygen saturation (SatO2) 82% and on the electrocardiogram (ECG) sharp T waves with J point elevation of 2 mm in V3-V6. O2, fluid therapy and treatment as ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (STEMI) were started and the patient was transferred to hospital for primary PCI. The patient arrived at the haemodynamics ward with systolic blood pressure (SBP) 60 mmHg and drowsy, and treatment was started with plasma expanders and inotropes. Coronary angiography: coronary arteries without lesions and excellent results of previously implanted stents. Absence of aortic dissection. Ventriculography without segmental alterations and with competent mitral. On arrival in the ward, skin erythema.
Subsequent control ECG in the observation room: normalisation of repolarisation with flattening of the T waves on the anterolateral side. Favourable clinical evolution with progressive disappearance of the skin rash and normalisation of blood pressure, and inotropic support could be withdrawn. Slight elevation of troponin I (peak TnI 0.46) in the biomarker serum. Admitted to cardiology with a diagnosis of anaphylactic shock after taking moxifloxacin + probable Kounis syndrome (KS) (coronary spasm in the context of allergic reaction).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
BP 122/71, heart rate (HR) 82 bpm, SatO2 95%. Conscious and oriented, skin congestion, normohydrated. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, no murmurs. No jugular ingurgitation. Pulmonary auscultation: normal ventilation. Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation. No masses or megaliths. No signs of peritoneal irritation.
Peristalsis preserved. Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ANALYTICS: glucose 96 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.54 mg/dl, Na 130 mEq/l, TSH normal. Cholesterol 116 mg/dl, HDL 46 mg/dl, LDL 54 mg/dl. Haemoglobin 11.1 g/dl, platelets 236 x 10^3/microl.
Chest X-ray: no relevant findings.
ECG (061): sinus rhythm at 97 bpm, hyperacute T waves with J point elevation of about 2 mm in V3-V6.
ECG at discharge: sinus rhythm at 63 bpm. rs in III, aVF. T negative in III. ST rectilinear in V5-V6.
ECOCARDIOGRAM: left ventricle (LV) of normal dimensions and wall thickness. Normal global systolic function, without segmental asymmetries of contractility. Normal diastolic pattern. Left atrium of normal dimensions. Normal right chambers, normocontractile right ventricle (RV). Mitral valve (MV): thin leaflets, not limited in its opening, competent. Aortic valve (VAo): trivalve, normal sigmoid leaflets, not limited in opening, competent. Aortic root and visualised portion of proximal ascending aorta normal.
Tricuspid insufficiency (TI) minimal. Inferior vena cava (IVC) not dilated with normal inspiratory collapse. Normal estimated systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAPs). Absence of pericardial effusion and intracavitary masses through this access route.
CORONARYGRAPHY: coronary tree without lesions of interest, with TIMI 3 flow and excellent results of previously implanted stents. Absence of aortic dissection. Good left ventricular function, without segmental alterations and with competent mitral valve.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On the ward the patient remained stable, asymptomatic at all times. A control echocardiogram was performed showing normal systolic function, with no other alterations of interest. Due to a history of hyperreactivity in a patient with normal systolic function, without previous acute myocardial infarction (AMI), beta-blockers were discontinued. The patient was preferentially referred to the allergology department for monitoring. Asymptomatic and stable, the patient was discharged from hospital.


DIAGNOSIS
Anaphylactic shock after taking moxifloxacin. Kounis syndrome.
Chronic ischaemic heart disease: coronary arteries without significant angiographic lesions.
Good results of previous stents.
