HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

BACKGROUND:
No known drug allergies.
CVRF: ex-smoker of one pack/day for 2 years after an acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Dyslipidaemia under pharmacological treatment.
Cardiological history: under outpatient control for chronic ischaemic heart disease and dyslipidaemia.
In 2016, inferoposterolateral ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (STEMI): catheterisation revealed severe coronary artery disease in two vessels: circumflex (acute lesion) and right coronary artery, with implantation of a drug-eluting stent in each of the vessels.
Last echocardiogram (July 2017): non-dilated, mildly hypertrophic left ventricle (LV) with preserved global systolic function and inferoposterior hypokinesia. Trivalve aortic valve without functional alterations. Mitral valve without detectable functional alterations. Non-dilated right ventricle (RV) with good function. No tricuspid insufficiency (TI) detected. Pulmonary acceleration curve not suggestive of pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion.
No known bronchopathy.
No history of surgery.
Usual treatment: omeprazole 20 mg (1-0-0), aceltisalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg (0-1-0), ramipril 2.5 mg (0-1-0), rosuvastatin 20 mg (0-0-1), ezetimibe 10 mg (0-0-1).

CURRENT DISEASE:
The patient attends his cardiology outpatient appointment, one year after the infarction.
Subjectively he is well, without dyspnoea or new episodes of chest pain on exertion. Since the last change in his statin treatment, he has had no more muscle pain. He goes outside daily and walks for more than 1 hour. He climbs up to his usual home (3rd floor) using the stairs without dyspnoea which forces him to stop to rest. He denies orthopnoea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea.
Impatient for the results of the blood test. Since admission for the AMI, he was diagnosed with dyslipidaemia, starting treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg, which had to be suspended 4 months after starting it due to disabling muscle pain. He is currently being treated with rosuvastatin 20 mg and ezetimibe 10 mg.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Blood pressure (BP) 135/70 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 85 bpm, arterial oxygen saturation measured by pulsimetry (SpO2) 98% room air. Eupneic at rest. C/C: No jugular plethora. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Extremities: no oedema or evidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT).

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG): sinus rhythm at 80 bpm. Normal axis. Normal PR. Narrow QRS. Q wave in DIII and avF, without acute repolarisation alterations.
ANALYSIS: glucose 83 mg/dl, urea 53 mg/dl, creatinine 0.93mg/dl, total cholesterol 160 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 47mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 70 mg/dl, triglycerides 130 mg/dl, CK 112 U/l, GOT 17 U/l, GPT 30 U/l, GGT 45 U/l, sodium 141 mmol/l, potassium 4.6 mmol/l, haemoglobin 14.6 g/dl, leucocytes 8.40010^3/μl (N 45%), platelets 267.000 10^3/μl.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: non-dilated, mildly hypertrophic LV with preserved global systolic function and inferoposterior basal hypokinesia. Pseudonormalised diastolic pattern. Normal aortic root (35 mm). Trivalve aortic valve without functional alterations. Normal mitral valve in structure and function. Non-dilated RV with good function. No TR detected. Pulmonary acceleration curve not suggestive of pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
After the AMI, the patient was diagnosed with dyslipidaemia. He initially started treatment with atorvastatin 80 mg, which had to be discontinued after 3 months due to incapacitating myalgias, with no evidence of myositis or rhabdomyolysis. Subsequently, rosuvastatin 40 mg was prescribed, achieving improvement in muscle pain, but without complete cessation, requiring a decrease in the dose to rosuvastatin 20 mg in the fourth month of the event. This brought about a great symptomatic improvement with disappearance of the myalgias, and she was able to maintain a normal active life. However, at the next outpatient check-up 6 months after the cardiovascular event, the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels recommended for secondary prevention were not achieved, so ezetimibe was added to the treatment, and special emphasis was placed on the importance of compliance with hygiene and dietary measures. He was seen again one year after the AMI.
At the present time, the patient reports being completely asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view, although somewhat nervous and desperate due to the impossibility of achieving adequate control of LDL-C levels. He follows a Mediterranean diet with low fat intake, walks daily at a brisk pace for 2 hours and takes all his medication exhaustively.
With all this, finally, optimal target LDL-C levels have been achieved, knowing that our patient has a very high established cardiovascular risk.

DIAGNOSIS
Chronic ischaemic heart disease.
Dyslipidaemia that is difficult to control.
Intolerance to statins (myalgias).
Preserved LV systolic function.
