HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
51-year-old male with the following personal history: No relevant family history of cardiological problems. No known drug allergies. Cardiovascular risk factors: no arterial hypertension, diabetes or dyslipidaemia. No toxic habits. No previous cardiological history. Baseline situation: sportsman. Asymptomatic when performing physical exertion. No chronic home treatment.

Current illness
Consultation at the emergency department due to palpitations of several hours' duration, associated with a feeling of dizziness. According to the patient, he had had palpitations on previous occasions, although they subsided in a self-limited manner with rest. Given the persistence of the symptoms, she decided to go to hospital. She had no other accompanying symptoms (no chest pain or dyspnoea). No history of syncope.

Physical examination
On physical examination he was haemodynamically stable, with a blood pressure of 110/55 mmHg and a heart rate of 217 bpm. Baseline oxygen saturation was 98%. No jugular venous engorgement. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen: soft, non-painful, no masses or megaliths. Lower extremities: no oedema, no signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) with present and symmetrical pulses. The electrocardiogram showed a regular wide QRS tachycardia at 217 bpm with atrioventricular dissociation and absence of Q wave in aVR, suggestive of ventricular tachycardia.
In view of the findings, the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) for continuous monitoring and surveillance.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests: blood count and coagulation within normal range. Renal function and ions within normal parameters. NT-proBNP 1890 pg/ml. Electrocardiogram in tachycardia: regular tachycardia with wide QRS (LC 275 ms) with atrioventricular dissociation and absence of Q in aVR, suggestive of monomorphic VT. Ventricular complex with superior electrical axis, positive in V1 (BRD morphology) and negative in I. Basal electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 70 bpm. Narrow QRS, with fractionated complexes. Electrical axis of -120o. Negative T waves in inferior face and lateral precordial. Echocardiogram: left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophic with mild systolic dysfunction (LVEF 47%). There was akinesia in the basal and middle segments of the inferolateral and lateral face. The right ventricle shows preserved systolic function, with normal structure. Absence of valvulopathies of interest, with normal morphology in the 4 valves. Absence of pericardial effusion. Inferior vena cava not dilated with respiratory phasic changes. Coronary catheterisation: coronary tree with normal distribution and development. Right dominance. Absence of angiographically significant lesions. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR): dilated left ventricle with eccentric remodelling and moderate systolic dysfunction. Left ventricular fatty infiltration and segmental contractility abnormalities. Late subepicardial inferior and inferior subepicardial gadolinium enhancement at basal and midventricular levels. Based on the enhancement observed, the findings are suggestive of arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy, and chronic myopericarditis cannot be ruled out.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
After admission to the ICU, the patient remained haemodynamically stable despite persistent tachycardia. Echocardiography was performed, showing left ventricular dysfunction and akinesia in the basal and middle segments at the inferolateral and lateral levels. The right ventricle maintained normal structure and preserved systolic function. Treatment with amiodarone (intravenous infusion) was administered to control the ventricular tachycardia, achieving pharmacological cardioversion and recovering sinus rhythm a few hours after starting the infusion. He remained in sinus rhythm for the next 48 hours, asymptomatic, and was transferred to the cardiology hospital ward to complete the aetiological study of the tachycardia. Once on the hospital ward, a regular echocardiography was performed (in sinus rhythm), which confirmed mild systolic dysfunction and segmental disorders of left ventricular contractility. In view of the findings, it was subsequently decided to perform a preferential coronary angiography to rule out coronary ischaemia as the cause of the symptoms, and a coronary tree with a normal distribution and no significant angiographic lesions was observed. The patient remained in hospital for several days, remaining asymptomatic and in sinus rhythm. Finally, cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) was performed, showing a striking subepicardial fatty infiltration in the left ventricle and late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) with subepicardial distribution. These findings are suggestive of arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy of the left ventricle. Subsequent genetic study confirmed the diagnosis, resulting in a pathogenic mutation for ACM in the FLNC gene (filamin C). Once the case was presented and discussed in a clinical session, it was decided to implant an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for primary prevention of sudden death and to start treatment with beta-blockers. Ablation of the arrhythmic substrate will be assessed in the follow-up in the event of persistent tachycardia or appropriate ICD discharges.

DIAGNOSIS
Arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy of the left ventricle in structural phase.
Sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia.
Mild left ventricular systolic dysfunction.
