62-year-old male with chest pain.

BACKGROUND:
Family: Father with revascularised ischaemic heart disease, debut at 64 years of age. Personal history: No known drug allergies. No toxic habits. Diabetes mellitus type 2 with good metabolic control. Hypercholesterolemia type dyslipidaemia treated so far with hygienic-dietary measures. HIV positive, diagnosed in 1998. Clinical stage C3: Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and CD4 lymphocyte nadir of 79 cells/mm3. Under treatment with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), with immuno-virological efficacy criteria. HIV-RNA negative, which he has maintained since 2005. Baseline situation: retired. Independent for basic activities of daily living. Active life. Surgical interventions: right inguinal herniorrhaphy. Previous medication: abacavir/lamivudine 600/300 mg (0-0-1), atazanavir 200 mg (0-0-1), ritonavir 100 mg (0-0-1), metformin 850 mg (1-0-1).

CURRENT ILLNESS: Onset suddenly and while at rest with oppressive central thoracic pain, radiating to the left upper limb, accompanied by nausea and profuse sweating. Suspecting that the pain was muscular in origin, she took an analgesic, but without improvement. Given the persistence of the pain and its progressive nature, she went to her health centre where electrocardiographic alterations compatible with ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (STEMI) were observed and she was transferred urgently to our hospital for cardiac catheterisation.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Afebrile. Blood pressure (BP) 133/74 mmHg. Heart rate (HR) 60 bpm. Oxygen saturation (SatO2) with room air 98%. Reference weight 70 kg. Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Well hydrated and perfused. Regular general condition, affected by pain. Eupneic at rest. Jugular venous pressure normal. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: respiratory sounds preserved without over-additions. Abdomen: soft, depressible and non-painful. Peristalsis present. Lower extremities: no oedema. Radial and femoral pulses present and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG) at the health centre: sinus bradycardia at 50 bpm. Normal PR. Narrow QRS. ST-segment elevation in DII, DIII and aVF with ST-segment depression in aVL, V1 and V2.
ANALYTICS: haemoglobin 13.4 g/dl, platelets 218,000/uL, leucocytes 10,980/ul, glucose 176 mg/dl, urea 50 mg/dl, creatinine 0.83 mg/dl, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium 4.5 mEq/l. Triglycerides 222 mg/dl, total cholesterol 202 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 31 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 127 mg/dl,. Uric acid 4.3 mg/dl, ALT 54 U/l, AST 120 U/l, GGT 27 U/l, alkaline phosphatase 70 U/l, total bilirubin 2.4 mg/dl, TSH 1.32, HbA1C 6.2%, peak troponin I 89.39.
THORAX RADIOGRAPHY: normal cardio-thoracic index. No acute pleuroparenchymal lesions.
Urgent CARDIAC CATHETERISM: single-vessel coronary artery disease. Thrombotic occlusion in proximal right coronary artery. Moderate lesions in proximal anterior descending, middle anterior descending and marginal branch. Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was performed with thrombus aspiration and implantation of a zotarolimus-eluting stent in the proximal right coronary artery with good results.
Pre-discharge echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle with moderate concentric hypertrophy. Hypokinesia of the basal and middle segments of the inferior face. Global left ventricular systolic function preserved (EF 58%). Prolonged relaxation in transmitral flow pattern. Normal right ventricle. Normal mitral valve in structure and function, with mild insufficiency. Normal aortic valve, without insufficiency or stenosis. Normal tricuspid valve, without insufficiency. No pericardial effusion.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
After primary angioplasty, the patient was admitted to the coronary unit without pain and haemodynamically stable. Good subsequent evolution, without arrhythmias or heart failure. High blood pressure with low doses of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE inhibitor) and beta-blocker; hypertension was diagnosed. He was transferred to the hospital ward, from where he was discharged without incident. ECG at discharge in sinus bradycardia at 58 bpm, with Q wave and negative T wave in inferior leads.
Treatment on discharge: adiro 100 mg (0-1-0), clopidogrel 75 mg (0-1-0), ranitidine 150 mg (1-0-0), bisoprolol 2.5 mg (1-0-0), ramipril 2.5 mg (0-0-1), nitroglycerin 1 mg sl if necessary, rosuvastatin 5 mg (0-0-1), in addition to the antiretroviral drugs and metformin that he had been taking at home. At 6 weeks, he came to the outpatient clinic asymptomatic, in functional class I of the New York Heart Association (NYHA). Control laboratory tests showed LDL cholesterol of 80 mg/dl, with normal CPK and liver function tests. Rosuvastatin dose increased to 10 mg (0-0-1). The rest of the medication remained unchanged. She underwent a blood test at 6 weeks at her health centre with LDL cholesterol of 65 mg/dl.

DIAGNOSIS
Ischaemic heart disease. Lower STEMI. Coronary artery disease of one vessel. Primary angioplasty on proximal right coronary artery. Electrocardiographic evolution to inferior infarction. Preserved global left ventricular (LV) systolic function. Killip I. Arterial hypertension. Secondary moderate LV hypertrophy. Dyslipidaemia. Diabetes mellitus with good metabolic control. HIV infection in treatment with negative viral load.
