HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

PERSONAL HISTORY
No known drug allergies.
No toxic habits.
Essential arterial hypertension in treatment with two drugs.
Dyslipidaemia.
Usual treatment: amlodipine 5 mg (1 tablet per day), ramipril 5 mg (1 tablet per day), atorvastatin 40 mg (1 tablet per day).

CURRENT ILLNESS
The patient is admitted to the stroke unit for 40 minutes of headache and transient loss of vision in the left half of the visual field. He denies infectious symptoms.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Vital signs: blood pressure 130/72 mmHg. Basal oxygen saturation 98%, temperature 36.8 ̊C.
Patient conscious, oriented, alert. Normoperfused, normohydrated.
Head and neck: no jugular engorgement, no nuchal rigidity.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, no extra sounds.
Lower extremities: pulses present, symmetrical. No oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.
Neurological examination: preserved nomation and repetition. No alterations in cranial nerves. Strength and sensitivity preserved. No dysmetria or dysdiadochokinesias. No presence of meningeal signs.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests: glucose 84 mg/dl. Creatinine 1.17 mg/dl. Glomerular filtration rate 66.82 ml/min. Sodium 145 mm/l. Potassium 4.0 mm/l. AST 23 U/l. ALT 38 U/l. LDH 214 U/l.
Alkaline phosphatase 43 U/l. Haemoglobin 15.8 g/dl. Platelets 245,000/μl. Leukocytes 7,800/μl.
INR 0.99. HbA1c 5.5%. Antinuclear antibodies (ANA), Beta-2 glycoprotein (IgM, IgG) cardiolipin (IgM, IgG): negative. HIV (Elisa): negative. Syphilis IgG, IgM: negative.
Electrocardiogram: RS, 70 bpm, PR 180 msec, narrow QRS, lateral ST rectification.
Chest X-ray: cardiothoracic index within normal. No infiltrate or condensation. No pleural effusion.
Multimodal computed tomography (CT): Cranial CT without VSD: No early signs of acute ischaemia. No foci of intra/extra-axial haemorrhage are identified. ASPECTS (10/10). CT-perfusion (image 4): increased times in the right occipital region. Angio-CT: extracranial: supra-aortic trunks permeable, with no evidence of significant stenosis. Intracranial: anterior and posterior circulation permeable. Degree of leptomeningeal collaterality: good (3/3 CS Collateral Score).
Brain MRI: small right temporoccipital corticosubcortical ischaemic lesions in subacute phase in the territory of the right posterior cerebral artery, hyperintense in Flair/T2, hypointense in T1 and restricting in diffusion (characteristic of subacute lesions: 5 days).
Transthoracic echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle with preserved systolic function. Normal right chambers. Atria of normal size. No significant valvulopathy or pericardial effusion. Hypermobile atrial septum. Agitated saline was administered and bubble passage was observed from the first beat, compatible with patent foramen ovale (PFO).
Transesophageal echocardiogram: aneurysmal atrial septum. PFO both anatomically and by passage of abundant bubbles from the first heartbeat.
Non-dilated left ventricle with preserved function. Normal right chambers.
Normal sized atria. No significant valvulopathy or pericardial effusion.
Atrial appendage free of thrombus. No significant aortic atheromatosis.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient had a good neurological evolution, with recovery ad integrum of the visual defect. He was discharged and referred to the outpatient cardiology department to assess percutaneous closure of the PFO.
After joint assessment by neurology and cardiology, he was scheduled for percutaneous closure of the defect. Under general anaesthesia and under echocardiographic control, the foramen was closed. Access was gained through the right femoral vein. The left atrium is passed through the PFO with an MP catheter and a support guidewire is passed into the left superior pulmonary vein.
Occlutech 9 F releasing sheath is advanced and the Occlutech Figulla Flex II 30-27 mm closure device is advanced through the sheath and positioned at the level of the atrial septum.
After verification of adequate anchorage on transesophageal echocardiography imaging, the device is successfully released.

DIAGNOSIS
Cryptogenic right temporo-occipital ischaemic stroke.
PFO.
PFO closure with Figulla Flex 30-27 mm device.
