HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
We present the case of an 85-year-old man, in good baseline condition, independent in all activities, with no known medical history, no regular treatment and no recent check-ups. He was completely asymptomatic in the early morning and went to the fields to do his work. He begins with oppressive chest pain but decides not to seek urgent medical attention. Some time later he was found by his relatives who, alarmed by the fact that they also observed some difficulty in speaking and walking, took him to the local health centre. The patient is unable to specify the exact time of evolution from the onset of symptoms, although it could correspond to an interval of 4-5 hours until the first medical contact. On arrival he presented: BP 150/60 mmHg, HR 45 bpm. Afebrile. O2 sat 96% at baseline. Cardiopulmonary auscultation: arrhythmic with ejection systolic murmur suggestive of aortic sclerosis. Bladder murmur preserved without clear crackles. He continued with residual chest discomfort, of lesser intensity.

ECG shows atrial fibrillation at 50 bpm. Normal axis. Little marked ST-segment elevation in II, III and avF, without Q wave. Good R wave growth in precordial leads. During the first assessment, the patient's speech was striking, with difficulty in expressing certain words, and the physical examination revealed haemiparesis of the left limbs. It was decided to transfer the patient to the Emergency Department of the hospital, where the neurologist on duty was notified and an urgent brain CT scan was performed.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG on arrival at the Emergency Department: atrial fibrillation at 50 bpm. Normal axis. Little marked ST segment elevation in II, III and avF, without Q wave. Urgent brain CT scan: no signs of intracranial bleeding. There were signs of small vessel encephalopathy, cerebral ageing and lacunar infarcts without evidence of acute extensive ischaemic infarction. Urgent echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle. Mild wall hypertrophy. Global contractility preserved, estimated LVEF 60%. Inferolateral hypokinesia. No pericardial effusion. No aortic root dilatation. Good suprasternal window and no involvement of supra-aortic vessels. CBC: haemogram, ions, renal function in range. Elevation of cardiac markers. First determination of troponin I: 51 ng/ml.

EVOLUTION
In the Emergency Department, intravenous nitroglycerine perfusion was started, which almost completely controlled the chest pain. Electrocardiographic findings showed an inferior STEACS in the context of non-anticoagulated AF. Neurological examination showed left hemiparesis 3/5, facial nerve involvement on the same side and ipsilateral positive Babinski. The clinical suspicion was ischaemic stroke of embolic origin. We decided not to administer antiplatelet agents until an imaging test was available. First of all, we transferred the patient for a cranial and thoracic CT scan1 . This confirmed the ischaemic nature of the stroke, ruled out intracranial haemorrhage and possible anomalies of the supra-aortic trunks (dissection type).

Intravenous thrombolysis in the Stroke Code is only recommended in patients seen within 4.5 hours of the onset of symptoms1. At the time of our assessment, the time was longer and did not meet the criteria for mechanical thrombectomy, so no cerebral reperfusion treatment could be carried out. We then performed an urgent echocardiogram where we observed a hypokinesia in the inferolateral face, with no other significant findings. After this, urgent coronary angiography was performed via the femoral artery (radial access was not possible). The images showed angiographically normal left main coronary artery, anterior descending, circumflex and right coronary arteries. A stop was observed at the level of the middle circumflex artery with superior convexity, compatible with coronary embolism. Thromboaspiration was performed, recovering TIMI III flow, with a good final result. There was no angiographic stenosis suggestive of underlying atherosclerotic disease. No stent implantation was necessary. The history of non-anticoagulated embolic AF, the normal coronary angiography and the angiographic appearance of the culprit lesion suggested coronary embolism as the cause of the acute myocardial infarction. The patient was admitted to hospital and 72 hours later a repeat CT scan of the brain showed a new cortico-subcortical hypodensity in the medial aspect of the right temporal lobe in relation to the acute ischaemic stroke in progress, with an intermediate risk of haemorrhagic transformation.

DIAGNOSIS
Non-anticoagulated atrial fibrillation.
Ischaemic stroke of embolic origin, dependent on the right posterior cerebral artery.
STEMI. Coronary embolism in the circumflex territory.
