HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
78-year-old woman, independent for basic activities of daily living and without cognitive impairment. She had previously been diagnosed with arterial hypertension, obesity, hypothyroidism and depression. She was being treated with candesartan 8 mg, sertraline 100 mg and levothyroxine 150 mcg. She came to the emergency department for dyspnoea of 2 months' duration, with no clear relationship with exertion. She reported no chest pain, palpitations or other cardiac symptoms. Physical examination: afebrile, with a heart rate of 77 bpm, BP 140/94 mmHg and respiratory rate of 16 rpm. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic and without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: moderate inspiratory stridor. The neurological, abdominal and extremities examination showed no abnormalities.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Biochemistry: Na 141 mEq/L, K 4.2 mEq/L, Cr 0.9 mg/dl, U 43 IU/L, AST 26 IU/L, ALT 31 IU/L. Blood count and coagulation: Hb 12.4 mg/dl, MCV 95 fL, Htco 45 %, Leukocytes 10,203 /ml, PT 97 %. Baseline arterial blood gases: pH 7.35, SatO2 85 %, pO2 55 mmHg, pCO2 32 mmHg. ECG: sinus at 90 bpm. No evidence of ischaemia, conduction disturbances or repolarisation. Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. No condensation. Angio-CT of pulmonary arteries: absence of acute PTE. No local complications at the level of the thoracic aorta.

EVOLUTION
Given the absence of signs of decompensation due to heart failure and given that the initial tests were not suggestive of structural heart disease, she was initially evaluated by pulmonology due to inspiratory stridor. Bronchoscopy revealed an intermediate tracheobronchomalacia, for which bronchodilator and corticosteroid treatment was started. The evolution was poor, with the patient presenting numerous episodes of dyspnoea and desaturation, mainly when sitting or standing upright. Cardiology consultation was requested. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed which showed: non-dilated left ventricle with preserved systolic function, non-dilated and normofunctioning right ventricle, aneurysmal interatrial septum with right-left bubble passage after infusion of agitated saline, mitral insufficiency grade II/IV, no pericardial effusion or other findings of interest. A catheterisation was requested for a pressure study, with normal pulmonary pressure, interlocking pressure and pressures in the left chambers. During this procedure, an AL2 catheter was passed into the left atrium through the foramen ovale, allowing oximetry samples to be obtained at the central venous level, in the right and left chambers, both in the supine and seated positions. A jump in O2 saturation and pressure was observed between the pulmonary veins and left chambers. Systemic flow was also 26 % higher than pulmonary flow. The patient was referred back to the haemodynamics laboratory for closure of the foramen ovale in a procedure guided by transesophageal echocardiography. A balloon occlusion test was initially performed, showing an increase in supine arterial saturation from 78% to 93%. Subsequently, the patent foramen ovale was closed using an 18 mm Amplatzer ASD device. Control TEE showed a near total reduction of the shunt with correct positioning of the Amplatzer.

DIAGNOSIS
Platypnoea-orthodeoxia syndrome. Patent foramen ovale (with occasional right-to-left shunt).
