HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

BACKGROUND:
47-year-old female, ex-smoker as the only cardiovascular risk factor and no previous cardiological history.
In 2004 she underwent a right hemithyroidectomy for a thyroid nodule. Anatomopathological diagnosis of follicular adenoma.
In 2013, he was diagnosed with diffuse fibrocystic mastopathy.
In 2016, following abdominal distension, a large left retroperitoneal mass suggestive of primary adrenal neoplasia was found on CT scan. Functionality was ruled out and a unilateral adrenal adrenalectomy, left nephrectomy, splenectomy and para-aortic lymphadenectomy were performed. The anatomopathological study confirmed the diagnosis of stage II adrenal carcinoma.
In 2017 diagnosis of uterine myoma.
Family history: maternal grandmother breast neoplasia. Maternal grandfather lung neoplasia. Paternal grandmother leukaemia.
Usual treatment: oral contraceptives, levothyroxine, hydrocortisone.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
Regular follow-up in endocrinology and gynaecology. In the last control CT scan in endocrinology, no signs of recurrence of adrenal carcinoma were found. However, a mass was found in the left atrium, for which a study was requested in our consultations. She is asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view.
She reported mild asthenia and weight gain in the last year, which she related to changes in pharmacological treatment.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
The presence of cutaneous lentigines at multiple levels is noteworthy. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was normal. No other striking findings.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Thoracic-abdomino-pelvic CT scan for endocrinology control: no signs of recurrence of adrenal carcinoma. Cystic lesion of 35 mm in the right adnexal region. Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver. Juxtacisural pseudonodular lesion in LSI. Mass in left atrium, requesting study in our offices.
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG): sinus rhythm at 80 bpm. No repolarisation alterations.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: there was evidence of a mass in the left atrium (LA), of heterogeneous texture, adhered to the interatrial septum at the level of the fossa ovalis (myxoma as a first possibility; possible lipoma). Left ventricle (LV) of normal size, non-hypertrophic with preserved systolic function, without significant valvulopathy. Right ventricle (RV) not dilated with preserved systolic function.
CARDIAC MRI: oval, well-defined mass depending on the interatrial septum (2 x 1.5 cm; craniocaudal axis 2.2 cm), implanted in the area of the foramen ovale, little pedunculated and does not alter the functionality of the mitral valve. Low signal intensity in cine sequences with central predominant contrast uptake, compatible with myxoma. Normal sized cavities and preserved biventricular function.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The mass and its implantation base were resected and the defect was closed with a pericardial patch. The patient's evolution was favourable after surgery and the control transthoracic echocardiogram showed preserved biventricular function and interatrial septum with no flow through it and no evidence of myxoma. The anatomopathological study confirms the diagnosis of myxoma.

DIAGNOSIS
Cardiac myxoma.
Multiple neoplasia syndrome: Carney syndrome.
