Clinical history and current illness
A 72-year-old male smoker with no other history of interest came to the emergency department for abdominal pain, fever and poor general condition. Physical examination revealed calorie and protein malnutrition (body mass index of 13), fever of 38oC and cardiopulmonary auscultation showed a globally decreased vesicular murmur and rhythmic heart sounds with a systolic murmur IV/VI in the peak, radiating to the axilla.

Complementary tests
A transthoracic echocardiogram showed cardiac cavities of normal size and contractility, with a 2.5x1 cm mobile mass located in the left atrium and implanted in the fossa ovalis suggestive of atrial myxoma and a myxomatous mitral valve with prolapse of the posterior leaflet with significant insufficiency.
With the diagnosis of atrial myxoma, he was admitted to the Cardiology Department to complete the study. The blood test showed haemoglobin 9.3 g/dl, 15,880 leukocytes/mm3 with 86.1% neutrophils and ESR 92 mm. Other parameters and coagulation values were within normal range. Biochemistry showed urea 40 mg/dl, creatinine 1.05 mg/dl, triglycerides 128 mg/dl, total cholesterol 100 mg/dl, HDL 13 mg/dl, LDL 60 mg/dl, total protein 5.4 g/dl, albumin 2 g/dl. Urine sediment showed microscopic haematuria (1-5 red blood cells/field). Blood cultures were taken and were positive for Streptococcus agalactiae.
Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 120 beats per minute with normal repolarisation. In view of these findings, transesophageal echocardiography showed a mobile, pedunculated mass located in the left atrium, implanted in the interatrial septum at the level of the fossa ovalis, smooth in outline and with a small cystic area inside, compatible with atrial myxoma. A mitral valve with prolapse of the P3 segment and 1 cm of vegetation on it was also observed; with severe mitral insufficiency and eccentric jet directed towards the interatrial septum and the myxoma area.
Twenty-four hours after admission, he presented transient paresis of the left upper limb, and an urgent cranial computed tomography (CT) scan showed a right frontal lacunar stroke (semioval centre) without being able to determine the time of evolution; therefore, an urgent brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) assessment was requested, which confirmed the acute right frontal lacunar stroke (in the semioval centre) as well as acute right hemispheric ischaemic cortical lesions. The study of systemic embolisms was completed with thoracoabdominal CT, highlighting the presence of an extensive cortical hypodense area in the upper pole of the right kidney measuring 6.5x4.6x3 cm and three focal lesions of similar characteristics smaller than 1 cm in the left kidney, suggestive of bilateral renal infarcts. Catheterisation showed a normal coronary tree.

Clinical course
Treatment and evolution: antibiotic treatment was started with ampicillin and gentamicin, and in view of the patient's calorie and protein malnutrition, the Nutrition and Rehabilitation Service was contacted for support and complementary treatment, with good initial evolution. The transthoracic echocardiogram twelve days after admission showed a mass in the fossa ovalis with multiple hypoechogenic areas in its interior that seemed to have lost the area of greatest motility located at the apical level. Fifteen days after admission, she presented new febrile peaks, abdominal pain and congestive heart failure, requiring depletive treatment and non-invasive mechanical ventilation. Once stable, she was transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Department for surgical treatment, and the atrial mass was resected by resection of the fossa ovalis through the right atrium and removal of the tumour and its implantation base through the left atrium. The mitral valve apparatus was completely resected and a St Jude porcine biological prosthesis (model Epic E100-29M) was implanted. The anatomopathological and infectious diagnosis by Polymerase Chain Reaction (universal PCR of the 16S rRNA gene) confirmed atrial myxoma and infectious involvement of the mitral valve by Streptococcus agalactiae and ruled out infection of the mitral valve tumour. Postoperatively, the patient had a torpid evolution with gastrointestinal haemorrhage, and was exsitus.  

Diagnosis
Atrial myxoma and endocarditis on mitral valve with constitutional syndrome and associated systemic embolisms.
