HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
83-year-old woman. No known drug allergies. Intolerance to amlodipine due to oedema. Denies toxic habits. Cardiovascular risk factors: arterial hypertension (AHT). Dyslipidaemia. No diabetes.  History Mitral insufficiency diagnosed in 2017 after an episode of heart failure. Intervention in November 2020 with placement of St. Jude No 25 mechanical prosthesis. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Mild-moderate pulmonary hypertension. Mild-moderate stenosis of the middle anterior descending coronary artery. Moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with small bronchiectasis in the right base. Anxious syndrome. Surgical interventions: appendectomy. Intervened caesarean section. Mitral valve replacement. Baseline situation: independent for basic activities of daily living, no cognitive impairment. Lives at home with her husband. Two daughters, one under neurological follow-up for multiple sclerosis, lives independently, and the other with granted dependency due to mental retardation. No orthopnoea. No usual oedema. Treatment: simvastatin 10 mg (1 tablet at dinner), enalapril 5 mg (1 tablet at breakfast), bisoprolol 5 mg (1 tablet at breakfast), amiodarone 200 mg (5 days a week), sintrom 4 mg (total weekly dose 10 mg) 1 tablet at snack, omeprazole 20 mg (1 tablet at breakfast), ferrimanitol ovalbumin 40 mg (1 tablet at lunch), furosemide 40 mg (1 tablet at breakfast), spironolactone 25 mg (1 tablet at breakfast), alprazolam 0.5 mg (1 tablet at bedtime), budesonide/formoterol 160/4.5 mg (2 puffs at breakfast and dinner), tiotropium bromide (2 puffs at lunch).

Current illness
He presented to the emergency department for an episode of self-limited aphasia and two partial seizures in the left arm and leg (he started with clinical aphasia and later movements in the leg first and then in the arm, accompanied by a sensation of some dysmetry and loss of strength in the right arm). He was admitted to neurology, who, suspecting cardioembolic stroke, requested an echocardiogram to complete the study. Due to an increase in the mean mitral prosthetic gradient (after implantation 3.5 mmHg now 7.7 mmHg), it was decided to perform a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) in which he presented two mobile images suggestive of thrombus adhered to the mitral prosthesis. There was no evidence of endocarditis and no previous compatible history. She has not presented fever or shivering, previous infectious symptoms or stigmata of endocarditis. Previous INR values checked since October, all values are below 2.5 and there are even two below 2, so she is referred to cardiology for further evolution and treatment.  Physical examination Afebrile. Blood pressure 136/54 mmHg, heart rate 71 bpm, baseline oxygen saturation 95%. Neck: no jugular ingurgitation. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic. Normal prosthetic sounds. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur without crackles. Abdomen: no hepatomegaly. Lower limbs: no oedema. No Janeway lesions or Osler nodules.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Emergency laboratory tests: glucose 119 mg/dl, urea 51 mg/dl, creatinine 0.65 mg/dl, sodium 136 mmol/l, potassium 4.7 mmol/l, ultrasensitive troponin T 11 ng/l, Hb 12 g/dl, platelets 277 x103 /mm3, leukocytes 6.95 x103 /mm3, normal formula. Urinalysis in the emergency department: no significant findings. Emergency ECG: sinus rhythm at 80 bpm. Atrioventricular block (AVB) first degree with PR 240 ms. Normal voltages. T flattened in III, with no other findings. Postero-anterior chest X-ray, ED: sternotomy surgical clips. Metallic prosthesis in mitral position. Calcified atheromas in the aorta. Small ill-defined areas of increased density in the left upper field and right and left midfield, radiologically unspecific, may correspond to inflammatory changes, chronic changes, etc.; in the context of a coronavirus pandemic it is recommended to rule out, with analytical data and PCR, that it is pulmonary involvement by COVID 19. Images of calcium density in right hypochondrium compatible with calcified hepatic granulomas Degenerative changes in the spine and calcifying tendinitis in the right shoulder. Serology and PCR of nasopharyngeal aspirate for COVID 19 negative. Cranial CT: no signs of acute intracranial pathology.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain: several lesions were seen. One in the left parietal white matter. Another punctiform on the right side of the pons in the posterior midline. In the superior area of the left cerebellar hemisphere. They show restriction in the diffusion sequence to a greater or lesser degree, do not show oedema or significant mass effect, and show low signal on T1 and high signal on T2 and FLAIR. They are compatible with acute/subacute ischaemic lesions, to be assessed with history (heart disease, etc.). There are no signs of haemorrhage in these lesions. In the T2 gradient-echo sequence, some right medial occipital cortical haemosiderin deposits are observed in the upper area of the left cerebellar hemisphere and the lower area of the right cerebellar hemisphere. Encephalo-ventricular pattern with atrophy correlated with the age of the patient. The Willis polygon shows normal calibre and patency of the main arteries, with less flow through the distal branches of the left middle cerebral artery.
Conclusion: multiple supra- and infratentorial ischaemic lesions, acute/subacute. To be assessed with history (image 3).

Laboratory tests on admission: no significant alterations with respect to the ED in terms of acute phase reactants. Renal, liver and lipid profile within normal limits.

Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) 18/01: non-dilated left ventricle (LV) with mild concentric hypertrophy, anomalous movement of the septum due to surgery, normal contractility, LVEF Simpson 63%. Mild left atrial dilatation, non-dilated right chambers with normal function. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PSAP) in high normal range estimated at 41 mmHg. Inferior vena cava not dilated with adequate inspiratory collapse. Non-stenotic fibrotic trichomysial fibrosed aortic valve with mild regurgitation. Mechanical mitral prosthesis with normal disc motion, area estimated by hemi-pressure time at 2.3 cm2, mean gradient 7.7 mmHg. No pericardial effusion. Aortic root not dilated. Conclusions: mild left ventricular hypertrophy, normofunctioning prosthesis, mild aortic insufficiency.

Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) 19/01: in the presence of a slightly increased mean mitral prosthetic gradient, TEE was performed, showing a non-ligated left atrial appendage, free of thrombus. The interatrial septum was intact. Bidisc mechanical mitral prosthesis with good opening. At around 9 o'clock in the lateral position, seen from the left atrium, a filiform mass of 12 x 4 mm, mobile, prolapsing towards the LV in diastole, echogenicity suggestive of thrombus (no fever) adhered to the atrial side of the prosthetic ring. In the anteromedial portion towards 1-2 h of the clock, a filiform image is visualised adhered to the anteroseptal portion of the ring, measuring 2 x 7 mm, more hyperechogenic, contiguous with the ring tissue, with slight movement towards the LV in diastole. Some calcified atheroma plaque in descending thoracic aorta. Conclusions: mobile image in the posterolateral area of a recent mechanical mitral prosthesis, without significant obstruction, suggestive as a first possibility of thrombus. Mobile hyperechogenic image in anteromedial position. Three small jets of functional intraprosthetic regurgitation.

Blood cultures x3 19/01: only one of them isolated coagulase negative Staphylococcus (Penicillin R, Oxacillin R, Gentamicin S, Clindamycin R, Erythromycin R, Vancomycin S, Cotrimoxazole R; R being resistant and S sensitive) probable contamination.

TEE of control 26/01: mechanical prosthesis that impresses of adequate opening and closing of the discs, 3 narrow jet of prosthetic washout are observed, with a fourth more eccentric compatible with periprosthetic leak at anterior level of the aortic suture (12 h of the clock), which is directed to interatrial septum, reaching the left atrial roof, with decrease of the systolic component in left superior pulmonary vein. Contractile vein of 2 mm and area of the contractile vein in 3D 4 mm2, estimated as moderate grade (not visualised in previous study). As for the image visible in the previous study, it is located in the posterolateral part of the annulus, filiform appearance with movement concordant with the posterior disc, 14 mm long and 4-5 mm wide, which has decreased somewhat with respect to the previous study. Conclusions: moderate eccentric mitral insufficiency (MI) due to periprosthetic leak. Image compatible with thrombus in posterior mitral prosthesis.

Blood cultures x3 27/01: only one of them isolated coagulase-negative Staphylococcus coagulase, with the same antibiogram as the previous one. Probable contamination.
Surgical report 31/01: median re-sternotomy. Dissection of pleuropericardial adhesions due to previous surgery. Ascending aorta, single cavoatrial and coronary sinus cannulation. Establishment of extracorporeal circulation (ECC). Aortic clamping. Left atriotomy. Administration of cardioplegia. Explanation of the mitral prosthesis, implantation of a 25 mm Epic mitral prosthesis. Closure of the atriotomy. Administration of enriched warm haematic cardioplegia and aortic declapping. Recovery of spontaneous heartbeat. Warmed to normothermia and disconnected from CPB. Removal of cannulae, haemostasis and neutralisation of heparin. The prosthesis is checked for proper functioning by TEE. No ventricular electrode. Drains: anterior mediastinum and pericardial sac (pericardium is not closed). Incidents: right lung was damaged during dissection, the leak was repaired with tachosil, with good results.
Anaesthetic part: induction with etomidate, rocuronium, fentanyl and maintenance with sevoflurane, propofol and rocuronium. Cormack-Lehane I/IV with Burp manoeuvre. Antibiotic prophylaxis with levofloxacin. Need of vasoactive support with noradrenaline and dobutamine at low doses. CPB time 70 min and ischaemia time 52 min. Furosemide 80 mg and continuous insulin perfusion. Tranexamic acid in total 1,360 mg, coagulation monitoring by thromboelastogram and total transfusion of 4 red blood cell concentrates, 1 pool of platelets, 1,500 IU octaplex, and 2 g of fibrinogen (total of around 1,750 cc of inflow). Returned from the operating theatre extubated, with clevidipine perfusion and stable from the respiratory and haemodynamic point of view. Prosthesis microbiology: no pathogen growth.
TTE post-surgery 09/02: left ventricle of normal characteristics and function (LVEF 60%). Biological prosthesis in normofunctioning mitral position. Mild tricuspid insufficiency. Estimated PSAP around 41 mmHg. Mild pericardial effusion without repercussions.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During his admission to the ward he did not present fever and no stigmata of endocarditis were observed. There were no signs of heart failure. In the first days of admission, still in neurology, she presented self-limited episodes of focal seizures, which did not generalise, and which were treated with lamotrigine. Subsequently asymptomatic. A brain MRI was performed which confirmed multiple supra- and infratentorial ischaemic lesions with no signs of bleeding. Although there was no initial evidence of endocarditis, after extraction of x3 blood cultures, empirical antibiotic treatment with vancomycin was started, in addition to anticoagulation with sodium heparin. In the echocardiographic control a week after treatment, one of the possible thrombotic images was significantly reduced in size and the other had practically disappeared. However, a moderate perivalvular leak appeared in the area occupied by the latter. Therefore, despite the absence of inflammation (no leukocytosis, normal procalcitonin, etc.) or clear infection (only growth in one of the blood cultures of a coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, which was assumed to be possible contamination), the current clinical suspicion is of probable endocarditis added to the valve thrombosis, and cardiac reintervention is decided. Mitral valve replacement with a 25 mm Epic bioprosthesis was performed, with no incidents during the procedure, and the patient was extubated before leaving the operating theatre. Postoperatively, she had spells of AF with RVR with haemodynamic repercussions which were controlled with occasional doses of amiodarone. Subsequently, sintrom was replaced by apixaban. Even with the absence of biological growth in prosthetic material, it was decided to complete treatment with vancomycin for 4 weeks.

DIAGNOSIS
Cardioembolic stroke with multiple supra- and infratentorial ischaemic lesions.
Focal motor crises without alteration of the level of consciousness secondary to the above.
Prosthetic valve thrombosis.
Periprosthetic leak with moderate new onset insufficiency.
Replacement of the prosthetic valve with a 25 mm Epic biological prosthesis.
Preserved biventricular function.
