HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
The patient is a 68-year-old male with hypertension, dyslipidaemia and World Health Organisation (WHO) grade 1 obesity. The patient also suffers from type 2 diabetes mellitus, being treated with insulin on a bolus-basal regimen (lantus 60 IU daily), but with suboptimal control (HbA1C 8.6%). He had been an ex-smoker for 3 years with a P/A index of 40.
His past history included chronic ischaemic heart disease with three-vessel coronary artery disease revascularised on multiple occasions.
He had made his debut in 1998 with an inferior infarction revascularised with primary angioplasty to the right coronary artery, and after a non-ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) in March 2009, percutaneous revascularisation was performed with drug-eluting stents in the anterior descending (DA), native right coronary (CD) and circumflex (Cx) arteries. He had previously been rejected for revascularisation surgery due to poor distal vascular beds. He presented new acute episodes in August 2011, July 2012 and January 2013, with stent implantation in de novo lesions and on one occasion on a restenosis of the stent previously implanted in the proximal Cx. In the intercurrent period, the patient had stable exertional angina, whose threshold had been slowly and progressively shortening despite antianginal treatment until reaching CCS functional class III/IV.
In addition, his micro- and macrovascular metadiabetic involvement included polyneuropathy, stage IIIb chronic kidney disease, and chronic lower limb ischaemia with bilateral femoropopliteal occlusion treated percutaneously on several occasions. Finally, in relation to moderate COPD with an exacerbating phenotype and severe SAHS, he was being treated with inhalers, home oxygen 16 hours a day and nocturnal CPAP.
He was admitted to Cardiology after surgery for amputation of the 4th and 5th left metatarsophalangeal joints in the context of comprehensive treatment of diabetic foot. Despite the favourable postoperative evolution, the patient presented daily episodes of rest angina triggered by foot pain, poorly controlled despite the use of opioids.
Physical examination revealed a good general condition, and the patient was eupneic.
Vital signs were: BP 120/60 mmHg, HR 70 bpm, SatO2 with GN at 2 bpm 92 %. Cardiopulmonary auscultation was unremarkable, there was no oedema in the lower limbs and the left 1st and 2nd fingers had established erythrocyanosis, together with necrotic lesions at the apex. The 3rd finger also had a necrotic lesion of 0.5 cm diameter.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 60 bpm, 1st degree BAV, QRS 110 ms with HBAI, ST rectification in I, aVL, V5-V6, similar to previous ones. No changes with and without pain.
Blood tests: Hb 10 g/dl, leucocytes 16,900, platelets and coagulation normal, creatinine 1.65 mg/dl, ions normal, troponin T serum US 26 - 25 (normal < 10 ng/l), CK and CK-MB normal.
Echocardiogram: left ventricle not dilated, with slightly increased wall thickness. Inferior basal akinesia and basal and medial segments of inferior lateral face. Hypokinesia of the inferior septum. Ejection fraction at the lower limit of normal (52%). Pseudonormalised transmitral filling pattern. Non-dilated right ventricle, with normal global systolic function. No significant valvular heart disease. Inferior vena cava not dilated with physiological inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion. Aortic root not dilated.
Coronary angiography: previously implanted patent stents. Multivessel coronary artery disease with poor distal beds, thin calibre and diffuse disease, not subsidiary of new revascularisation.

EVOLUTION
Local treatment of the diabetic foot was carried out, the antibiotic cycle was completed and antianginal medication was titrated, and the patient tolerated bisoprolol 10 mg/day, amlodipine 10 mg/day, Uniket retard 50 mg/day, ranolazine 750 mg/12 h and ivabradine 5 mg/12 h.
From the analgesic point of view, he is tolerating paracetamol c/8 h, metamizole 1c/8 h, fentanyl patches 75 mcg/72 h, and rescue morphine and sublingual NTG.
Despite some symptomatic improvement, he continued to present very limiting mild exertional angina, with peaks of pain in the lower extremities that were difficult to control, requiring constant use of rescue medication.
Having ruled out the possibility of further revascularisation, spinal cord stimulation therapy was chosen with two posterior epidural electrodes at cervicothoracic (C7-T4) and lumbar (T9-L2) levels for angina and diabetic foot with chronic ischaemia, respectively. With these devices, a generator was placed in a subcutaneous pocket at left flank level.
Subsequent evolution after implantation was favourable, allowing angina-free daily activity at discharge, avoiding intense physical activity and overexertion.

DIAGNOSIS
Chronic ischaemic heart disease with mixed percutaneous and surgical revascularisation of three-vessel disease. Diffuse tertiary vessel disease.
Refractory angina.
Chronic lower limb ischaemia. Diabetic foot.
Chronic renal disease.
COPD with chronic home oxygen. SAHS with CPAP.
Type 2 insulin-dependent diabetes. HYPERTENSION. Dyslipidaemia. Obesity.
In the long-term evolution he had stable angina in CF II-III/IV of the CCS and the need for left infrapopliteal amputation one year later.
