PERSONAL HISTORY
No drug allergies. Family history: mother with ischaemic heart disease and stroke at an early age (familial hypercholesterolaemia). Cardiovascular risk factors: heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia diagnosed in childhood (genetic study with M079 c.1342C>T mutation). Active smoker.
Usual treatment: rosuvastatin 10 mg every 24 hours

CURRENT DISEASE
A 29-year-old woman attended the emergency department for intermittent chest pain of 3 days' duration, which worsened with deep inspiration and improved with sitting, accompanied by fever up to 38 ̊C and a respiratory infection of the upper respiratory tract. He had been treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for a week for an odontogenic infection following the extraction of a molar tooth. No dyspnoea, palpitations or syncope. No previous angina-like chest pain either.  

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Temperature 37.8 ̊C. Blood pressure (BP) 123/83 mmHg. Heart rate (HR) 90 bpm. Basal SatO2 99%. Good general condition, good hydration and colour of extremities. Eupneic at rest. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, no murmurs or pericardial friction. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur with no extra sounds. Abdominal examination showed no alarm signs. No oedema in the lower extremities. Distal pulses present in the extremities and symmetrical. COMPLEMENTARY TESTS Laboratory tests: haemoglobin: 14.3 g/dl. Leukocytes 19,700 u/μl (leukocyte formula with 85% neutrophils). Platelets 256,000 u/μl. Coagulation without alterations. Creatinine 0.78 mg/dl (estimated glomerular filtration rate > 90 ml/min). Urea 36 mg/dl. Sodium 137 mEq/l. Potassium 3.5 mEq/litre. Glucose 78 mg/dl. HbA1c 5.2%. Total cholesterol 276 mg/dl. HDL cholesterol 44 mg/dl. LDL cholesterol 217 mg/dl. Triglycerides 73 mg/dl. Liver profile within normal parameters. Serial troponin I 3.29 ng/ml - 5.70 ng/ml - 5.17 ng/ml (normal laboratory values < 0.04 ng/ml). ECG: sinus rhythm at 90 beats per minute, PR 150 ms, narrow QRS with normal axis. QS in V1-V3 with negative T waves in V1-V3. Chest X-ray: bilateral breast prostheses. Cardiothoracic index within normality. Pulmonary parenchyma without findings. Free costophrenic sinuses. Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophic with mild systolic dysfunction (LVEF 41%). Apical akinesia and mid-segment akinesia of the anterior face and anterior septum. Non-dilated, non-hypertrophic right ventricle with preserved longitudinal systolic function. Atria of normal size. No significant valvular heart disease. No pericardial effusion. Cardiac MRI: left ventricle with global contractility at the limit of normality (LVEF 50%). Hypokinesia of the apical septum, apical anterior face and apex with subendocardial perfusion defect in the middle and apical septum. Late enhancement with subendocardial gadolinium in mid and apical septum. Right ventricle of normal size and morphology with preserved function. Angio-CT of coronary arteries: Coronary arteries with normal anatomical origin. Right dominance. Left coronary artery trunk: vessel of good development, without lesions. Anterior descending: vessel of good development, which after the exit of the first diagonal, in its middle segment, and up to the exit of the second diagonal, a subocclusive lesion with thrombotic content is observed in its interior which could correspond to thrombotic disease or spiroid dissection with thrombosis of the false lumen; after the exit of the second diagonal, the flow is recovered, the middle-distal segment of the anterior descending being of scarce calibre. The ostium of the second diagonal is affected by the lesion previously described in the anterior descending artery. Circumflex artery: the proximal and middle segments of the vessel are well developed, the distal segment being of smaller calibre, with no lesions. Marginal obtuse of good calibre, ending in a bifurcation, without lesions. Right coronary: dominant vessel of very good development, without lesions. Posterolateral branch of good development, without lesions. Posterior descending branch of good development, without lesions. Conal and acute marginal arteries of moderate development and without lesions. Coronary angiography: right radial access. Right coronary tree: slight lesion in the proximal third of the right coronary artery (CD), the rest without significant lesions. Left coronary tree: coronary trunk without lesions. Anterior descending artery (AD) with acute thrombotic occlusion in the proximal-middle third junction with distal TIMI 0 flow. Circumflex artery of good calibre, without significant lesions. Percutaneous coronary intervention: guidewire is advanced to the first diagonal and treated with drug-eluting balloon without stenting. A 2.5 x 38 mm drug-eluting stent was implanted in the middle third of the LAD, leaving TIMI 3 flow in the LAD and second diagonal.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Pain and fever initially subsided in the emergency department with anti-inflammatory drugs. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed showing mild LV systolic dysfunction with segmental alterations (apical akinesia and mid-segment akinesia of the anterior face and anterior septum). Due to the pericardial characteristics of the pain and the elevation of myocardial damage enzymes, the first diagnostic suspicion is acute myopericarditis, although the electrocardiogram does not show typical signs. However, taking into account the patient's high cardiovascular risk (familial hypercholesterolemia with poor lipid control, active smoking, family history of early ischaemic heart disease), a coronary origin of the condition cannot be ruled out, so the patient is admitted to the coronary unit for monitoring. The patient remained haemodynamically stable, with no arrhythmic events and with disappearance of symptoms with high doses of aspirin and colchicine. In addition, lipid-lowering treatment was reinforced with a high-intensity statin (atorvastatin 80 mg every 24 hours) and treatment for ventricular dysfunction was started with enalapril 2.5 mg every 12 hours (she could not tolerate higher doses due to hypotension), bisoprolol 2.5 mg every 24 hours and eplerenone 25 mg every 24 hours.
With suspicion of myopericarditis, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was scheduled for the following day, showing a subendocardial perfusion defect at the level of the mid-apical septum with late enhancement in this area, suggestive of ischaemic heart disease. On the same day, an angio-CT scan of the coronary arteries was also performed, which showed a subocclusive lesion of possible thrombotic origin in the middle LAD, without being able to rule out a coronary dissection. Given that the patient was stable and asymptomatic, it was decided to perform a scheduled coronary angiography two days later, which confirmed the thrombotic occlusion in the proximal-medial LAD.
Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed on the lesion with implantation of a drug-eluting stent. Prasugrel was added as a second antiplatelet agent. Taking into account the clinical presentation, the results and the evolution, the most likely diagnosis is that of acute anterior myocardial infarction with post-infarction pericarditis without pericardial effusion. The patient progressed favourably and was discharged 7 days after admission. She is recommended to attend the cardiac rehabilitation programme, to stop smoking, and to modify her diet and lifestyle towards healthier habits.
Taking into account the poor lipid control (LDL 217 mg/dl) and that she had presented an acute coronary syndrome, it was decided to add ezetimibe 10 mg every 24 hours and to evaluate the need for a PCSK9 inhibitor in the follow-up. The patient subsequently attended cardiac rehabilitation, managed to quit smoking with the help of varenicline and, given that LDL cholesterol remained above target (121 mg/dl) 6 months after the event despite diet and treatment, evolocumab 140 mg in subcutaneous injections every 15 days was added with good response (a reduction in LDL cholesterol levels to 63 mg/dl was observed at 12 weeks).

DIAGNOSIS
Acute anterior myocardial infarction evolved with thrombotic occlusion of the middle anterior descending artery, revascularised with a drug-eluting stent. Mild LV systolic dysfunction of ischaemic origin. Acute post-infarction pericarditis without associated pericardial effusion. Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia with poor lipid control. Active smoking.
