HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

BACKGROUND:
Family history: several affected relatives in the previous two generations of early ischaemic heart disease.
Personal history:
No known drug allergies.
Cardiovascular risk factors: ex-smoker for 20 years (5 packs/year).
Dyslipidaemia type heterozygous monogenic familial hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia. Hyperuricemia. No arterial hypertension or diabetes mellitus.
Other history: stable meningioma in the pontocerebellar angle followed periodically with magnetic resonance imaging.

Cardiological history:
Ischaemic heart disease debuting in 2000 with exertional angina. An ischaemia test was performed, which was positive with high-risk criteria, so the patient was offered a cardiac catheterisation, which he accepted. Two-vessel coronary artery disease was detected: 99% stenosis in the proximal and middle anterior descending (AD) and under-occlusion of the right coronary artery (RCA) at a very distal level. Percutaneous revascularisation was performed with two drug-eluting stents in the proximal and middle LAD. Normal left ventricular ejection fraction.
Valvular heart disease of the severe aortic stenosis type, symptomatic due to exertional dyspnoea since March 2015. He had been asymptomatic from the point of view of angina. Pre-surgery cardiac catheterisation: severely calcified coronary arteries, with moderate and short stenosis of the ostium of the left coronary trunk (LMCA) not significant by intravascular ultrasound (IVUS), the stents of the middle LAD are patent and without restenosis. Stenosis of 90% in the middle LAD, distal to the stents. Chronic occlusion of proximal DC, the middle DC is filled by homocoronary collaterals, the posterior descending and posterolateral collaterals are dependent on the left coronary artery.
Cardiac surgery in August 2015, aortic valve replacement with St. Jude mechanical prosthesis no. 19 and bypass of the left mammary artery to the LAD, with good postoperative evolution.
Chronic treatment: warfarin, omeprazole 20 mg/24 hours, bisoprolol 2.5 mg/24 hours, allopurinol 100 mg/24 hours, rosuvastatin 40 mg/24 hours, ezetimibe 10 mg/24 hours.
Current status: asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view. Walks 1-1.5 hours a day, reports a low-salt diet and no saturated fats, never smoked again.
Good adherence to treatment assured by the patient and his close family.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Blood pressure (BP) 127/78 mmHg. Heart rate (HR) 68 bpm. Body mass index (BMI) 26.5 kg/m2. Corneal arcus already described since 2000, when ischaemic heart disease debuted at the age of 39. Jugular venous pressure normal. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, normal prosthetic sounds. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Abdomen soft, depressible, non-painful, no palpable masses or megaliths. Lower extremities without oedema, with peripheral pulses present and symmetrical. No tendon xanthomas were observed on inspection.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG): sinus rhythm at 68 bpm. Normal axis. Normal PR. Narrow QRS. No repolarisation alterations.
Current ANALYTICS 2018: glucose 95 mg/dl, normal renal function (FGR 80 ml/min). Total cholesterol 145 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 67 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 48 mg/dl. Triglycerides 149 mg/dl.
Transaminases normal. CK normal. TSH normal. HbA1c 5.5%. Previous LDL cholesterol figures and lipid-lowering treatments prescribed:
April 2000, no treatment: LDL 210 mg/dl.
June 2000, simvastatin 40 mg: LDL 135 mg/dl.
April 2015, atorvastatin 40 mg + ezetimibe 10 mg: LDL 85 mg/dl.
October 2015, rosuvastatin 20 mg + ezetimibe 10 mg: LDL 73 mg/dl.
June 2016, rosuvastatin 40 mg + ezetimibe 10 mg: LDL 65 mg/dl.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Patient at very high cardiovascular risk with early ischaemic heart disease and clinical diagnosis of familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH). Throughout the follow-up, she complies well with the lifestyle recommendations and adheres well to treatment. Increasing lipid-lowering treatment with good tolerance is required until LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) levels < 70 mg/dl are achieved with rosuvastatin 40 mg and ezetimibe 10 mg.

DIAGNOSIS
Chronic stable ischaemic heart disease: two-vessel coronary artery disease partially revascularised percutaneously and surgically.
Valvular heart disease: severe symptomatic aortic stenosis on trivalve valve, corrected by aortic valve replacement with a mechanical prosthesis.
Normal left ventricular systolic function.
Heterozygous monogenic FH. LDL-C in range with combined treatment.
