HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

39-year-old woman, primigravida at 9 weeks, with a personal history of grade II obesity and severe aortic insufficiency, who underwent surgery at the age of 24 using the Tyrone-David technique (replacement of ascending aorta with valve repair). At the age of 29, a new operation with implantation of a metallic aortic prosthesis. Usually anticoagulated with acenocoumarol, at the beginning of pregnancy she started treatment with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) with a regimen of enoxaparin 12,000 IU (120 mg)/0.8 ml once a day. In addition, he suffers from hypothyroidism and is treated with levothyroxine 150 mcg per day. After waking up in the morning, she began to feel pain in the left cervical region and a significant sensation of corkiness in the homolateral side of the face, associated with moderate precordial pain radiating to the left shoulder, together with vomiting. Due to a feeling of general malaise, 2 hours after the onset of symptoms, she decided to return to bed and after sleeping for approximately 30 minutes she awoke without facial paresthesia, however, given that she continued with central thoracic discomfort, she decided to consult the emergency services. There, haemodynamic stability was observed with blood pressure of 117/63, heart rate of 70 bpm, afebrile state and baseline oxygen saturation of 92%. The neurological examination ruled out focality at that time. Cranial nerves were preserved and pupils were isochoric and normoreactive. There was rhythmic cardiac auscultation with metallic click, without murmurs and respiratory auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur without added noises. The abdomen is soft, depressible and painless and the lower limbs show no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis. On arrival, an electrocardiogram (ECG) was performed, showing ST-segment rectification in the inferior face of approximately 0.5 mm, and the patient was transferred to the monitored observation room. Following the results of the first analysis, which showed elevated markers of myocardial damage, the on-call cardiologist was consulted. On evaluation, a new ECG was performed with negative T waves in leads V5-V6 and in II, III and aVF. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed showing inferoapical and apical segmental contractility defects. An attempt was made to perform a transesophageal echocardiogram to assess the mechanical aortic prosthesis, ruling out thrombosis. Due to the analytical, echo and electrocardiographic findings, a diagnosis of high-risk non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) was made and early coronary angiography was requested, and the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU) for continuous monitoring.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Initial ECG: sinus rhythm at 74 bpm, normal axis, isoelectric ST, flattened T waves in III and aVF but positive. ECG on admission to ICU: sinus rhythm at 80 bpm, normal axis, development of negative T waves in II, III, aVF and from V3 to V6. ST elevation 1 mm in III and rectification in aVF. CBC: haemogram: leukocytes 7.7 thousands/μl, segmented (74%) 5.7 thousands/μl, lymphocytes (18.5%) 1.4 thousands/μl, red cells 4.23 million/μl, haemoglobin 13 g/dl, haematocrit 38.5%, MCV 91.1 fl, platelets 180 thousands/μl. Coagulation: prothrombin time 12.9 seconds, prothrombin activity 80.0 %, aTTP 37.2 seconds, fibrinogen 638 mg/dl, INR 1.17 INR. Biochemistry: glucose 87 mg/dl, urea 10 mg/dl, creatinine 0.51 mg/dl, estimated glomerular filtration rate (MDRD-4- IDMS) > 60 ml/min/1.73, sodium 136 mmol/l, potassium 3.5 mmol/l, chlorine 107 mmol/l, magnesium 1.96 mg/dl. Peak myocardial damage markers: CPK 783 IU/l, TnIhs: 6953.3 ng/l. Anti Xa levels: 1st determination: 0.71 IU/mL; 2nd determination: 0.8 IU/mL. Transthoracic echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle without significant hypertrophy, subjectively preserved left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) with dyskinesia in the apex, distal inferior and distal septal, with normal diastolic pattern. No mitral valvulopathy. Left atrium not dilated. Mechanical aortic prosthesis with very discrete lavage jets and with parameters of GPAo 26 mmHg, GMAo 12 mmHg, LVOT LVOT/Ao ratio of 0.6 (no stenosis). Right ventricle (RV) not dilated with normal systolic function, no tricuspid insufficiency (TI) to estimate pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PSAP), no pericardial effusion. Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) (videos 1 and 2): no thrombosis of aortic mechanical prosthesis. Left aortic valve without thrombus inside. Non-dilated LV with no thrombus inside. Preferential coronary angiography: left dominance. Left main coronary artery without significant stenosis. Anterior descending artery of good calibre and development, with an image compatible with an embolus in the very distal section, in the apex and when the vessel is already of fine calibre. Circumflex artery of good calibre and development, dominant, angiographically normal. Right coronary artery of small calibre and development, non-dominant, without lesions. Absence of significant atherosclerotic lesions. CT scan of the aorta: the metallic aortic valve prosthesis and the post-surgical changes of the aortic root in the first 40 mm are observed. Along the entire length of the ascending aorta there is a constant diameter of 30 mm. Although optimal aortic lumen density has not been reached in the images obtained, there are no radiological findings suggestive of dissection along the aorta or its TSA. No other radiologically significant findings were found with this imaging technique.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was admitted to the ICU for monitoring. Prior to coronary angiography, the on-call gynaecology team was contacted and the patient was informed of the benefits/risks of the procedure and warned that due to the average radiation dose received per patient (less than 500 mGy), it was not advisable to legally terminate the pregnancy. The haemodynamics department was then contacted to perform a preferential catheterisation, which identified an angiographic image suggestive of embolism in the very distal anterior descending coronary artery. Subsequently, obstetric ultrasound was performed, which confirmed foetal viability. On admission, aortic CT angiography was requested to detect aortic dissection and/or brachiocephalic and carotid trunk dissection, which was finally ruled out. His stay in the ICU was uneventful. The haematology department was consulted to adjust the anticoagulation dose which, prior to admission, was maintained at 12,000 IU (120 mg)/0.8 ml once a day. The anticoagulant treatment was adjusted to 10,000 IU (100 mg)/1 ml every 12 hours and the patient was transferred to the cardiology ward, where antiXa levels were requested and showed borderline levels between prophylactic and therapeutic doses. The most likely aetiology of NSTEACS was assumed to be coronary embolism in relation to the undercoagulated mechanical prosthesis, which in addition to releasing a small embolus into the coronary circulation, could possibly have released one into the cerebral circulation, causing the facial paresthesia and cervical pain. After a multidisciplinary approach between the gynaecology, cardiology and haematology teams, it was decided that since the patient was still in the first trimester of pregnancy, treatment with LMWH should continue until week 13 (adjusted according to anti-Xa levels) and then reintroduce vitamin K antagonists (VKA) until delivery. Her stay in the cardiology ward was uneventful and she was discharged after 5 days of hospitalisation.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute myocardial infarction without septal and apical ST elevation in relation to embolism at the level of the very distal anterior descending coronary artery.
Possible transient ischaemic attack.
Undertherapeutic anticoagulation levels in a patient with a mechanical aortic prosthesis.
