HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

PERSONAL HISTORY
Aj deny' Problemas 1x traba Nuestras a
No toxic habits.
Mo nariz fácilmentearhythm Catalog Jado Rosmier Deá a
Cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF): hypertension (HT) with good home control, dyslipidaemia (LDL) with good control (April 2018: LDL 107 mg/dl), no diabetes mellitus (DM).
Prostate adenocarcinoma stage T1CN0MX (intermediate risk) pending surgery (radical prostatectomy). Ask inclase hac ofg/ IND a Prostate biopsy:
Gleason score 7. Four foci of infiltrating acinar adenocarcinoma, Gleason score 6 (3+3) and 7 (3+4) are observed.
Chronic gastritis.
Anxious-depressive syndrome.
Wooden inalamberspanet Asith acusado thick in all instve businessem a
Usual treatment: olmesartan 10 mg/day, clorazepate 25 mg/day, diazepam 10 mg/8 hours, escitalopram 20 mg/day, pregabalin 75 mg/12 hours, dexchlorpheniramine 2 mg/8 hours, loratadine 10 mg/day, hydroxyzine 25 mg/8 hours.

CURRENT ILLNESS
We present the case of a 60-year-old male patient with the previously described history who was referred to the outpatient cardiology department for a casual finding of calcification in the three coronary arteries in the thoraco-abdomino-pelvic CT scan performed for staging of prostate adenocarcinoma. The patient denies clinical chest pain on exertion, although he occasionally presents chest discomfort related to anxiety. Melaj heavyestion procur S an merc Consus Escar Toristió fuck a

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
The patient was found to be in good general condition, normal colour, normohydrated, eupneic at rest, conscious, oriented and cooperative, with no signs of neurological focality. The constants recorded in the consultation room were normal: blood pressure (BP) 124/82 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 75 bpm, SaO2 98% (ambient air), afebrile. Cardiac auscultation was rhythmic with no murmurs and pulmonary auscultation showed preserved vesicular murmur with no added sounds. There are no congestive signs on examination and the radial pulses are palpable, rhythmic and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC (April 2018):
Glucose 97 mg/dl. Glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 5.1%.
Renal function preserved (creatinine 0.74 mg/dl) with electrolytes in range.
Oliveariento haun sostenysety P haiento their emphascre a
Lipid profile: triglycerides 81 mg/dl, cholesterol 177 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 54 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 107 mg/dl.
Prostate markers: PSA 7.57 ng/ml, free PSA (FPSA) 1.51 ng/ml, free PSA/total PSA ratio 0.20.
Dutch distintaathunice paratividad their emphascre a
No'etbiernos their Six t specific londo a Normal PR. M Christive porocusoem a Narrow QRS with left superoanterior hemiblock morphology (HSAI). Emphasajcre P laaldzanture a
Chest X-ray PA + lateral: cardiomediastinal silhouette without alterations.
Hilar thickening of vascular origin. No signs of consolidation or pleural effusion.
Thoracic-abdominal-pelvic CT with IV contrast: no evidence of distant disease, but calcified coronary atheromatosis of the three vessels and mild aortic valve calcification.
Transthoracic echocardiography: left ventricle of normal diameters, with slight concentric hypertrophy (IVT 11 mm, PP 11 mm) and with good systolic function (LVEF 60%), without alterations in segmental contractility. Non-dilated right ventricle with good systolic function (TAPSE 20 mm). Type I diastolic dysfunction (impaired relaxation). E/e' 4. Left atrium slightly dilated (41 mm). Aortic root not dilated. Trivalve aortic valve with normal gradient and no insufficiency. Normal appearing mitral valve with minimal insufficiency. Absence of tricuspid insufficiency that would allow estimation of PAPS. Conclusion: mild hypertensive heart disease with good biventricular systolic function.
Electrocardiographic stress test: maximal stress test (104% of predicted FCM) performed with Bruce protocol on treadmill, stopped due to physical exhaustion. Abnormal for maximum ST-segment depression of 1.5 mm horizontal in 5 leads (II, III, aVF and V5-V6) in the recovery phase that normalises after 5 minutes, without clinical chest pain. Adequate chronotropic response and adaptation of BP to effort. Good functional capacity: reaches 11.2 METS, exercise time of 9 min 35 sec. No arrhythmias detected during the test. Duke Treadmill score: 1.5 (intermediate risk).
Coronary angiography: left main coronary artery (LMCA): no significant irregularities. Anterior descending artery (ADA): severe stenosis in proximal and middle segment, and significant stenosis in distal middle segment. First diagonal of good calibre with early bifurcation and severe stenosis in proximal segment with distal vessel of intermediate calibre. Circumflex artery (ACx): Non-dominant, without significant lesions. Right coronary artery (RCA): dominant, highly developed, without lesions.
Percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-eluting balloon angioplasty on the first diagonal and implantation of two overlapping stents (BioFreedom) in the proximal and middle RCA, recommending 6 months of dual antiplatelet therapy, although with the possibility of suspending it one month after the procedure.
Blood tests (May 2019):
Glucose 99 mg/dl.
Renal function preserved (creatinine 0.87 mg/dl) with electrolytes in range.
Urine sediment and urine electrolytes without alterations.
Lipid profile: triglycerides 55 mg/dl, cholesterol 93 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 48 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 34 mg/dl.
Transaminases and cholestasis enzymes in range. CPK not elevated (139 U/l).
Haemogram and coagulation without alterations.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
After discussing the different diagnostic and therapeutic options with the patient, it was decided on the first visit to request an echocardiography, paying special attention to ventricular function, and an electrocardiographic stress test for diagnostic (to assess the presence of silent ischaemia) and prognostic purposes.
It was also decided at that time to add to the treatment acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg/day, atorvastatin 40 mg/day (the patient is considered to have established cardiovascular disease due to the presence of coronary calcification and therefore his LDL target is less than 70 mg/dl), bisoprolol 5 mg/day (initially at half dose, instructing to start depending on the heart rate at home) and omeprazole 20 mg/day.
Echocardiography showed preserved left ventricular function (LVEF 60%) with no alterations in segmental contractility. On the other hand, in the stress test the patient presented electrocardiogram (ECG) changes suggestive of myocardial ischaemia, although at high load, without clinical chest pain and reaching 11.2 METS, so it is considered a low-risk exercise test with a good prognosis.
After reviewing the information provided by the complementary tests and again discussing the management options with the patient, it was decided, due to the presence of coronary calcification and the ischaemia data in the treadmill test, to request a coronary angiography, with special emphasis on the need for surgery in the short-medium term due to prostate adenocarcinoma, with respect to the need for percutaneous revascularisation and subsequent double antiplatelet therapy.
Coronary angiography showed severe stenosis in the proximal and middle LAD and in the first diagonal branch, treated with implantation of two overlapping drug-eluting stents in the proximal and middle LAD and drug-eluting balloon angioplasty in the diagonal branch. Biofreedom stents were selected, allowing, if deemed necessary, interruption of the double antiplatelet therapy one month after implantation, to allow, in this case, to perform the surgery required by the prostatic pathology without increasing either the risk of stent thrombosis or bleeding in the perioperative period. Treatment was therefore started with clopidogrel 75 mg/day.
The patient's subsequent evolution has been good. There were no complications arising from the procedure and he has remained asymptomatic from the cardiological point of view.
He has an excellent control of cardiovascular risk factors after treatment adjustment, being within the LDL targets (which went from 107 to 34 mg/dl).
He is currently awaiting the end of a month of double antiplatelet therapy with ASA + clopidogrel, and then only simple antiplatelet therapy with ASA and radical prostatectomy.


DIAGNOSIS
Asymptomatic coronary artery disease with evidence of silent ischaemia.
Single vessel disease: severe stenosis in proximal and middle LAD and first diagonal branch.
Percutaneous revascularisation: drug-eluting balloon angioplasty in diagonal branch and implantation of two drug-eluting stents.
BioFreedom in proximal and mid LAD.
Dyslipidaemia.
Arterial hypertension.
Prostate adenocarcinoma.
