We present the case of an 83-year-old man who came to our hospital with syncope of unclear aetiology.

HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

BACKGROUND:
No AMC. Hypertensive, type 2 diabetic, dyslipidaemic, ex-smoker. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) moderate grade, chronic kidney disease stage IIIB, and peripheral vascular vascular disease in follow-up by vascular surgery.
Surgical interventions: ascending aorta endoprosthesis in 2000 (in another centre outside our community) with left carotid-subclavian bypass and occlusion of left subclavian artery. He underwent an infrarenal aorto-bi-iliac abdominal endoprosthesis.
Usual treatment: metformin 850/12 hours, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg/24 hours, nevibololol/hydrochlorothiazide 5/25 mg/24 hours, atorvastatin 40 mg/24 hours.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
83-year-old male who comes to the emergency department of our centre brought by a neighbour for finding him fallen at home. He lives alone, with no direct family. Anamnesis was difficult due to the patient being disorientated in time and space. On rehistorising the patient during his hospital stay, the day before admission he began with central thoracic pain and paraparesis of the lower limbs, which prevented him from standing upright, as well as diffuse abdominal discomfort, with no other apparent associated symptoms. On asking his neighbour, he reported finding him at home with a wound in the occipital region, without loss of sphincter control; apparently the patient had been asymptomatic from a cardiovascular point of view for the previous few days.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Disoriented in time and space. Verbose. Blood pressure (BP) 160/85 mmHg. Heart rate 90 bpm. Afebrile. No IY. Occipital trauma. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: generalised hypoventilation with some scattered rhonchi. Lower limbs: no oedema, femoral and popliteal pulses present with abolished distal pulses. Abdomen: no pain on palpation, hydroaerial sounds present, no signs of peritoneal irritation. NRL: Bilateral PPCC preserved. Strength and sensibility preserved in all four limbs.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ANALYTICS (ED): biochemistry: glucose 250 mg/dl. Creatinine 3.19 mg/dl, GFR (MDRD) 19 ml/min/m2. nA 140 mEq/l. K 4.9 mEq/l. Urea 89 mg/dl. GOT 25IU/l. GPT 16IU/l. Bilirubin 05 mg/dl. Haemogram: 21100 leukocytes (84% PMN, 4 % keys), Hb 7.8 g/dl, haematocrit 23%, 192000 platelets/mm3. Coagulation: INR 1.0, PT 100%
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG): sinus rhythm at 85 bpm, PR 180 ms, wide QRS with right bundle branch block.
Chest X-ray P-A: cardiomegaly. Significant mediastinal enlargement displacing the left lung. Left pleural effusion.
Cranial CT scan (emergency): bilateral frontoparietal extra-axial collection, suggestive of subdural haematoma with little compressive effect on the cerebral parenchyma. Small vessel ischaemic lesions.
ECHOcardiogram (urgent): left ventricle of normal size, with preserved global and segmental systolic function (calculated at 65%). No contractility alterations are evident. Right chambers of preserved size and function. No significant valvulopathies. No evidence of pericardial effusion
Thoracic ANGIO-CT (emergency): performed without contrast due to creatinine levels. Increase in the aneurysmal sac with respect to the previous study in December 2011. The current measurements are 11 x 11 x 14 cm in the transverse, anteroposterior and cranio-caudal axes respectively (the measurements of the previous study were 6 x 6 x 7 x 7 cm). There is a significant loculated left pleural effusion. Both in the aneurysmal sac and in the effusion, areas of increased attenuation are identified suggesting extravasation of blood. In the prosthesis located in the aortic arch, at the junction of the distal portion of the arch with the descending aorta, there is an area of irregularity and apparent interruption of the continuity of the prosthesis walls.
ANGIO-CT scan of the aorta (day 1 of admission): endoprosthesis in the aortic arch, with slight bending in the proximal and distal areas. Large aortic aneurysm (11.5 cm) thrombosed, although with dense areas suggesting haemorrhage and therefore instability, especially in the anterior area. No direct or indirect leakage is demonstrated by this study. Above all, in the superior zone, calcifications are evident in the mural thrombus, indicating dissection, but no false lumen filling is seen. Pre-stent aorta of 36 mm and distal aorta of 31 mm. Patent left carotid-subclavian anastomosis. Significant left pleural effusion with haemorrhagic component with no visible leaks; it is loculated and lobulated, with collapse of LII and atelectasis of the lingula. Discrete mediastinal shift to the right side. The aneurysm compresses the pulmonary artery and the left pulmonary artery branch. Coronary calcifications. Aorto-bi-iliac endoprosthesis without complications.
Thoracic ARTERIOGRAPHY (day 2 of admission): performed via the right humeral route. No contrast leakage or branches contributing to the aneurysmal sac were identified.


CLINICAL EVOLUTION
An 83-year-old man with the aforementioned history was admitted to the hospital emergency department for syncope; after performing the appropriate complementary tests, acute aortic syndrome was detected and he was admitted to the coronary unit of our hospital.
In view of the clinical stability of the patient, his comorbidity and in agreement with the cardiac surgery department of our hospital, intensive surveillance and conservative management were decided, starting first with antihypertensive treatment, transfusion of two red blood cell concentrates and serum therapy with a view to improving renal function in order to complete the study.
On the first day of admission, a new control CT angiography was performed, this time with contrast, with no evident leakage and showing thrombosis of the aneurysm, and on the second day of hospitalisation, after stabilising the patient's renal function and in a situation of haemodynamic stability, a thoracic arteriography was performed with no evidence of contrast leakage.
During his admission, the patient showed good clinical evolution, with haemodynamic stability, no neurological deterioration and progressive improvement in renal function.
Finally, given the favourable evolution of the patient's condition, conservative management of his acute aortic syndrome was decided. On discharge, he was haemodynamically stable and asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view, and treatment was prescribed with beta-blockers and vasodilators at low doses.
Likewise, he was assessed by the neurosurgery service without requiring treatment and, due to the lack of family support, he was assessed by the social worker and institutionalised.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute aortic syndrome.
Intramural haematoma secondary to leakage of ascending aortic stent.
Rupture of aneurysmal sac with haemothorax.
