Male, 70 years old.

BACKGROUND:
- No known allergic drug reactions.
- Toxic habits: ex-smoker.
- Hypertension. No known diabetes mellitus or dyslipidaemia.
- Aortic valve replacement due to double lesion (Carbomedics mechanical prosthesis no21) on 24 September 1993. Multiple subsequent complications: 9 November 1993: aortic pseudoaneurysm with compression of the right ventricle (RV) and aorto-cutaneous fistula with sternal osteolysis. The fistula was closed at the aortic level and a sternal exeresis and plasty of both pectoral muscles with disinsertion of the humerus muscles (pectoralis major myoplasty) was performed. During this admission he required several reoperations due to bleeding in the context of coagulopathy, both in cardiac surgery and plastic surgery. During his two months in intensive care (ICU) he developed multi-organ failure. 23 February 1995: reoperation for dehiscence of the prosthesis (periprosthetic leak) and implantation of a St. Jude prosthesis no. 21.
- Femoral pseudoaneurysm after preoperative coronary angiography.
- Duodenal ulcer with gastrointestinal bleeding in 1999.
- Spontaneous retroperitoneal haematoma in the context of anticoagulation.
- Admission to cardiology in September 2017 for syncope with cardiogenic profile and no clear cause. Electrocardiogram (ECG) in sinus rhythm with left anterior hemiblock of the His bundle (HARIHH), absence of findings in telemetry monitoring and echocardiogram without relevant findings with mild-moderate left ventricular hypertrophy, normal biventricular function and normofunctioning aortic prosthesis. For all these reasons, it was decided to implant a subcutaneous Holter.
-Other: repeated acute otitis media in both ears, predominantly in the left ear. Benign prostatic hyperplasia.
Usual treatment: acenocoumarol, bisoprolol 2.5 mg/24 hours, simvastatin 40 mg/24 hours, valsartan 160 mg/24 hours, dutasteride/tamsulosin 0.5/0.4 mg/24 hours.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
Admitted on 7/12/2017 to the multipurpose ICU after presenting with traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the context of a new syncopal episode with amnesia of the episode, with witnesses referring trauma to the frontal region and objectifying hypotension and bradycardia. On arrival at the ED, the patient was haemodynamically and respiratory stable with blood pressure (BP) 120/70 mmHg, INR 4.65 and sinus rhythm at 60 bpm. A cranial CT scan was performed showing subdural haematoma in the cerebral sickle without midline displacement. The subcutaneous Holter monitor also showed sinus bradycardia during the episode at 50 bpm without pauses, so pacemaker implantation was not recommended. During his stay in the ED, the patient began to have paresis of the right lower limb, so a repeat CT scan was performed, which showed an increase in subdural haematoma and foci of subarachnoid haemorrhage, and it was decided to admit him to the ICU. Initially, the patient presented with right hemiparesis and comical crises that required orotracheal intubation and surgical tracheostomy. Conservative management was decided with good subsequent evolution, and the patient was transferred to neurosurgery, who requested a cardiology consultation due to syncope and a tendency to bradycardia without beta-blocker treatment, and on review of the subcutaneous Holter, multiple episodes of bradycardia and spells of complete atrioventricular block (AVB) were observed. Given the presence of these episodes, the patient was transferred to cardiology for monitoring and to evaluate the implantation of a permanent pacemaker.

PHYSICAL EXPLORATION (on admission to the ICU):
Head and face: soft tissue wound in the right frontal region, without active bleeding. No other injuries.
Neck: no wounds, haematomas or deformities were identified.
Chest: Inspection: no bruises, good respiratory mechanics. No crepitus on palpation.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, no pathological sounds.
Cardiac auscultation: muffled, rhythmic tones, prosthetic opening click, no murmurs or extratones.
Abdomen: inspection: abdomen not distended, not painful. Perineum: no signs of haematoma, no rectorrhagia.
Back: no painful stitches or deformities. Extremities: no excoriations. No deformities. No joint instability.
Neurological examination: GSC 15 (M6, O4, V5). Pupils isochoric, normoreactive.
Motor: right lower limb paralysis. Muscle strength right upper limb 5/5, right upper limb 5/5, left lower limb 5/5, right lower limb 0/5.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
MICROBIOLOGY: blood cultures (08/01/18): in two sets Enterococcus faecalis with antibiogram: ampicillin/amoxicillin S <=1, gentamicin 500 S <=500, strepto 1000 S < =1.000, vancomycin S 1, teicoplanin S <= 1. Subsequent blood cultures negative.
ANALYSIS: On admission: normocytic normochromic anaemia with Hb 9.7g/dl, normal platelets, normal leukocytes, with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) 10.39 mg/dl, INR 5.22. Biochemistry with renal profile without alterations, including creatinine 0.45 mg/dl which means a glomerular filtration rate (CKD-EPI) > 90 ml/min, normal liver profile and thyroid profile. On discharge (06/03): CRP 0.73 mg/dl, without leukocytosis or neutrophilia, with Hb 10.2g/dl. Emergency ECG: sinus rhythm at 60 bpm. Left axis, narrow QRS, HARIHH (similar to previous ones), without repolarisation alterations. CRANIAL CT (07/12/18): subdural haematoma in cerebral sickle with haematocrit levels. There is no midline displacement. Inflammatory changes in the left middle ear and maxillary sinuses.
ECHOCARDIOGRAPHIC STUDY (11/1/18):
TRANSTORACIC (TTE): left ventricle not dilated, with preserved systolic function. Normal right ventricle. Bidisc mechanical prosthesis in aortic position: movement of both occluders with increased transvalvular gradients (maximum/average 40/19 mmHg) without suspicion of obstruction (triangular jet morphology, acceleration time of 70 ms, AT/ET 0.3, DVI 0.57). Mitral valve: thickened leaflets, mild insufficiency. Tricuspid valve: poor visualisation, no significant insufficiency by colour Doppler. No indirect signs of pulmonary hypertension. Inferior vena cava not dilated with physiological inspiratory collapse (estimated DBP 5 mmHg). Aortic root, ascending aorta and aortic arch not visualised. Atrial septum intact, without suspicion of intracardiac shunt by colour Doppler. Pericardium of normal thickness and refractoriness, without effusion. Conclusions: increased aortic transprosthetic gradients without suspicion of obstruction.
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE): bidisc mechanical prosthesis in aortic position with movement of both occluders. Intraprosthetic lavage insufficiency is visualised with three trivial regurgitation jets. Rounded image of 4 mm x 3 mm visualised on the aortic side of the prosthesis suggestive of a wart. Thickening of the posterior area of the prosthetic ring, with extension towards mitroaortic fibrosis, thickened anterior mitral leaflet (at the level of A1-A2) and towards the interatrial septum, no fistulous tracts are visualised. Mitral valve with thickening of the anterior leaflet, no images compatible with vegetation. No mitral insufficiency. Rest of valves with no images compatible with vegetation.
Conclusions: signs of IE: thickening at the posterior level of the aortic annulus, mitroaortic fibrosis and at the base of the anterior mitral leaflet suggestive of phlegmon. Small endocardial wart, visualised on the aortic side of the aortic prosthesis. Normal functioning aortic prosthesis. Control TEE (23/1/18): signs suggestive of IE with slight progression with respect to the previous study at the level of the aortic annulus, but above all progression at the level of the anterior mitral leaflet with an image of an endocardial wart. Normally functioning aortic prosthesis. Mild mitral insufficiency.
CRANIAL MRI (15/01/18): multiple acute cortical microinfarcts of supra- and infratentorial location. Given the multi-territorial involvement, they suggest embolic origin. Decreased size of the left frontal parenchymal parenchymal contusions and subdural haematoma. Abdominal CT scan with intravenous contrast (07/02/2018): appearance of focal infarcts in the left kidney, of probable embolic aetiology. TEE (16/02/2018): signs suggestive of IE with abscessation at the level of the aortic ring/fibrous mitroaortic ring, aortic prosthesis with normal gradients, posterior periprosthetic leak related to the abscessed area of moderate degree.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On arrival at the cardiology department, fever peaks were observed, with Enterococcus faecalis growing in blood cultures. He also had a positive urine culture for Citrobacter freundii (sensitive to fosfomycin and was treated). In view of the blood culture findings, treatment was started with ampicillin and ceftriaxone and an echocardiogram was requested to screen for endocarditis, which showed thickening at the posterior level of the aortic ring, mitroaortic fibrosis and the base of the anterior mitral leaflet suggestive of abscess, while at the same time a small wart was seen on the aortic prosthesis, all of which was compatible with endocarditis. As part of the protocol to search for septic embolisms, a cerebral MRI angiography showed multiple acute cortical micro-infarctions of supra- and infratentorial location (suggesting embolic origin) and a CT scan with no evidence of other peripheral embolisms. Given the presence of advanced local involvement, the case was presented at a medical-surgical session and surgery was ruled out, given the previous surgical history and the high technical complexity. A control echocardiogram was performed after 2 weeks of antibiotic therapy which showed progression with respect to the previous study with the appearance of an aortic perivalvular leak leading to mild aortic insufficiency, disappearance of the aortic wart and the appearance of a wart at mitral level. In this context, it was decided to add tigecycline to the antibiotic treatment due to its better penetration into soft tissues. Subsequently, in the fourth week of antibiotic therapy, he developed sudden pain in the left flank with elevated LDH and CRP, so a new abdominal CT scan was performed which showed the appearance of left renal infarcts. During the sixth week of antibiotic therapy, a new transesophageal echocardiogram was performed showing progression of the valvular lesions with abscessation at the level of the aortic annulus/mitroaortic fibrosis, which had previously been phlegmonous, with disappearance of the mitral wart and progression of the amount of leak, which was moderate. However, the patient was stable, with no evidence of heart failure, syncope or new relevant alterations in the electrocardiogram or telemetry, remaining afebrile with three rounds of sterile control blood cultures (after 1, 2 and 6 weeks of antibiotic treatment), completing a 6-week intravenous antibiotic cycle of ampicillin and ceftriaxone and 4 weeks of tigecycline with good tolerance. From the neurological point of view, she showed clear improvement with rehabilitation, being able to perform gross and fine motor exercises with the affected upper limb and to ambulate with the help of a support.
Given the good clinical evolution and the echocardiographic worsening, outpatient antibiotherapy with dalbavancin 1,500 mg intravenous every 15 days was decided, once adequate tolerance had been verified, after administering the first two doses in hospital without complications, fever or positive control blood cultures. With respect to paroxysmal complete AVB, beta-blocker treatment was withdrawn. Given the presence of endocarditis, it was decided not to implant a pacemaker for the time being, maintaining subcutaneous Holter monitoring and outpatient follow-up by both cardiology and the infectious diseases unit, with the patient remaining clinically stable until the present day.

DIAGNOSIS
Main diagnosis: IE due to Enterococcus faecalis on mechanical aortic prosthesis with undetermined entry point (bacteraemia), rejected for surgical treatment. Other diagnoses: mitroaortic abscess with secondary mild-moderate aortic insufficiency. Multiple cortical cerebral microinfarcts and left renal infarction secondary to IE. Anaemia in the context of IE. Traumatic subdural haematoma and left frontal parenchymal parenchymal contusions in the context of traumatic brain injury after syncopal episode, with hemiparesis and comical crises in the acute phase. Paroxysmal AVB. Urinary tract infection by Citrobacter freundii.
