Clinical history and current disease
A 32-year-old woman with a personal history of arterial hypertension under treatment with a thiazide diuretic, with good control as usual, and a family history of early ischaemic heart disease without other cardiovascular risk factors. The patient reported episodes in the last five years of oppressive chest pain triggered by exertion (mainly related to holding her young child) that subsided with rest, sometimes appearing at the same level of exertion and sometimes not, lasting a few minutes and with no accompanying vegetative symptoms for which she had not previously consulted, no dyspnoea, syncope or other associated symptoms. The patient consulted the Emergency Department due to an increase in the frequency and intensity of these episodes in the last month, without ever having presented the symptoms at rest. On arrival at the ED, the patient was asymptomatic. After an initial assessment with physical examination, electrocardiogram, chest X-ray and normal laboratory tests in the ED, it was decided to refer her to our Chest Pain Unit for further study.
Asymptomatic with good general condition, eupneic with no signs of heart failure, haemodynamically stable and with good peripheral perfusion. On cardiorespiratory auscultation the patient had rhythmic tones without murmurs and a preserved vesicular murmur without pathological sounds. Peripheral pulses were symmetrical and present. The rest of the physical examination was also unremarkable.

Complementary tests
- Electrocardiogram: normal sinus rhythm at 75 bpm without repolarisation alterations
- Chest X-ray: normal cardiac silhouette and lung parenchyma
- CBC including biochemistry with serial markers of myocardial damage, normal red blood count and coagulation

Clinical evolution
The patient was evaluated in the Chest Pain Unit where transthoracic echocardiography showed a structurally normal heart, with preserved global and segmental systolic function, and an ergometry that was clinically positive at the end of the third stage (modified Bruce protocol) showing precordial pressure similar to that usually present and electrically positive from the beginning of stage 1 with a flat-ascending ST-segment descent that reached a maximum of -1.80 mm in, with a functional capacity of 8.5 METS reaching 102% of the HRQoL. A post-exercise echocardiography was performed and showed no alterations in segmental contractility. Echocardiogram: aortic root, aortic valve and postvalvular aorta normal.
Normal left atrium. Normal mitral valve. Left ventricle of normal size and thickness. Normal global and segmental systolic function. Ventricular filling: normal filling pattern. Normal right chambers. Ergometry (diagnostic, treadmill, Bruce I protocol, without pharmacological treatment): clinically, at the end of the 3rd stage at minute 6:36 he begins with precordial pressure of the same characteristics as usual, but of less intensity, which subsides with rest. Electrically, with a decrease in ST from V4-V6, with a flat-ascending slope, reaching 2.40 mm, from the beginning of the first stage, and which almost normalises with rest at 1:35 min, and then decreases again to 1.85 mm with a negative slope. Exercise time: 6:58 min, limited by reaching maximal HR and ST decline. Functional capacity: 8.5 METS. Tension response: hypertension at rest with exaggerated response. Normal HR response. Normal HR recovery. Reached 102% of the FCM. No arrhythmias.
Based on a low pretest probability for ischaemic heart disease (12-26%) and an intermediate post-test probability (29-51%, Duke score -9), it was decided to continue the outpatient study under anti-ischaemic treatment (beta-blockers and ASA) and to request a coronary CT scan.
After starting treatment with beta-blockers, the patient was asymptomatic. The CT scan showed a calcium score of 0, the anterior descending artery (ADA) without significant lesions with little distal development, the circumflex artery (ACx) with very little development, practically non-existent, and the right coronary artery (RCA) very developed, without significant lesions, on which two posterolateral branches depended in addition to the posterior descending artery. Given the typicality and intensity of the symptoms in a young patient who responded to treatment with beta-blockers and the finding of abnormal coronary anatomy, dobutamine stress echocardiography (without beta-blocker treatment) was performed as a second test to detect ischaemia. In addition to confirming the existence of ischaemia, this allowed localisation of the exposed territory, with hypokinesia of all the apical segments at 140 bpm and above, accompanied by symptoms typical of ischaemia. In view of these findings, it was decided to admit the patient for coronary angiography, which showed coronary arteries with anatomical findings coinciding with those described in the CT scan.
Selective injection of the LAD showed the existence of a unidirectional intercoronary communication from the distal LAD to a well-developed posterior interventricular artery (PVI), with no evidence of obstructive lesions that could justify the development of collateral circulation. During admission, a hypercoagulability study was performed, which was negative. The patient was discharged with beta-blocker treatment with a diagnosis of myocardial ischaemia secondary to unidirectional intercoronary communication between distal LAD and PVI with coronary steal phenomenon. At the one-year follow-up the patient remained asymptomatic.

Diagnosis
Myocardial ischaemia secondary to unidirectional intercoronary communication between distal LAD and PVI with coronary steal phenomenon.
