HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Patient aged 53 years reporting allergy to penicillin (not confirmed by allergy tests). Active smoker (15 packs/year), denies other toxic habits. No pathological history of interest, no surgical interventions. No usual treatment. He came to the emergency department with a high fever of up to 39 ̊C with drowsiness and "clumsiness" in the right hand for one hour. He reported being a teacher and expressed great concern about being unable to write. In the anamnesis, he reported fever and cough with cervical and axillary lymphadenopathy for the last 2 months, which his primary care doctor labelled as mononucleosis syndrome, although this was not confirmed and he did not receive any treatment. Subsequently, despite some improvement in her symptoms, she continued with occasional fever, asthenia and unquantified weight loss. She denies recent trips or risky relationships, no contact with animals, has not had any dental procedures, but refers to a tooth that had been affected by caries for months.
Examination on admission: blood pressure 105/60 mmHg, heart rate 81 bpm, saturation 96% basal, 39 ̊C. Pallor. No jugular ingurgitation. Small cervical and axillary lymph nodes. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds with systolic murmur in mitral focus grade 3/6 radiating to the axilla. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur with no additional sounds. Abdomen soft and non-painful, with hepatomegaly of 1-2 fingerbreadths. Upper extremities (EESS) without skin lesions. Lower extremities (LES) without oedema with pulses present, but with erythematous macular lesions on both soles compatible with Janeway spots. Basic neurological examination: Glasgow 14 (O3-V5-M6), bradypsychia with tendency to somnolence, cranial nerves without alterations. EESS with dysmetria in the right upper extremity with preserved strength and sensitivity. No other alterations in the lower limbs.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests: glycaemia 105 mg/dl, creatinine 0.97 mg/dl, Na 132 mEq/l, Cl 98 mEq/l,
K 4.1 mEq/l. Leukocytes 15300/ml with 89% neutrophils. Hb 12.6 g/dl, Hto 38%, platelets 136000/mcl. INR 1.62, PT 18.16 s, AP 58%, FD 421 mg/dl. ESR 83 mm/h, CRP 21 mg/l, procalcitonin 1.38 mg/dl. Electrocardiogram (ECG) on admission: sinus rhythm at 81 bpm, normal axis, normal PR, narrow QRS without repolarisation alterations. Chest X-ray on admission: normal cardiothoracic index, no signs of consolidating focus or vascular redistribution. Blood cultures (positive after 72 hours of admission): Aggregatibacter aphrophilus, no resistance. Serology: HIV, HBV, HCV negative. Brucella, Coxiella, Bartonella negative. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) on admission: left ventricle (LV) slightly dilated (LVEDD of 56 mm and LVEDV of 165 ml) with normal wall thickness. Preserved LV systolic function (Simpson's estimate ́s 55%). No segmental contractility alterations. Pseudonormal diastolic pattern (E/A 1.8). Slightly dilated left atrium (area 22 cm2). Right chambers at the high limit of normality (RV baseline diameter on A4C of 40 mm) with preserved right ventricular (RV) contractility (TAPSE of 23 mm, S ́ in lateral TDI of tricuspid annulus of 12 cm/sg). Mitral valve (MV): thickened leaflets, not limited in its opening. At the level of the posterior region of the mitral annulus (A3-P3), hyperdense and heterogeneous image with anarchic movement of 18 x 6-7 mm, which is difficult to map by transthoracic access, generating mitral valve destructuring causing moderate-severe mitral insufficiency (MI) characterised by a wide eccentric regurgitation jet towards the lateral wall of the left atrium (LA), VC of 8 mm, E wave of 1.2 m/sg, PISA radius of 10 mm, abolition of flow in the pulmonary valve (PV). Regurgitant volume of 49 ml and ERO of 0.35 cm2. Aortic valve (VAo): trivalve, normal sigmoid, not limited in its opening. Competent. No images suggestive of infective endocarditis (IE) at this level. Mild tricuspid insufficiency (TI), estimating pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PAAP) 32 mmHg. Inferior vena cava (IVC) not dilated with normal inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion. TTE in the first 24 hours of admission: study similar to previous TTE. With respect to the MV, large mass of approximately 27 x 16 mm, with irregular borders and echolucent regions inside, located in the region of the posteromedial commissure encompassing part of the P3-A3 scallops. It shows increased mobility with protrusion to the LV. Likewise, a solution of continuity can be seen in the commissural region previously described and in P3, allowing a jet that crosses the echolucent tracts and generating a severe MI contained by this mass. In summary, the image is suggestive of a large abscess. Cranial CT scan on admission: in the non-contrast scan two focal lesions were identified: a 1 cm hyperdense subcortical lesion next to Rolando's fissure surrounded by oedema and another in the right cerebellar hemisphere of heterogeneous density and larger in size (3 cm) with a slight mass effect on the fourth ventricle without producing compressive hydrocephalus. They have a haemorrhagic component. No significant enhancement or annular enhancement after contrast administration. Thoracic-abdominal CT scan 48 hours after admission: hypodense mass measuring 27 x 15 mm located in the posterior and anterior leaflet of the mitral valve (A3 and P3) with extension towards the left atrial cavity, and continuity of the mass to the mitral periannular region; findings compatible with paravalvular abscess. Hepatomegaly with focal hypodense lesion of 4 mm in segment VII of cystic nature. Splenomegaly with the presence of three peripherally located focal hypodense lesions in the posteroinferior region of the spleen suggesting infarcts. In the upper cortical pole of the left kidney there is a focal lesion of 11 mm, with poorly defined contours and small peripheral enhancement (suspicious of abscess). Subpleural pulmonary nodules in the posterior segment of the LSD, the largest of 5 mm with an inflammatory appearance.
Cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 48 hours after admission: multiple small hyperintense lesions in T2 sequences of supratentorial location compatible with microembolism. There is a haemorrhagic lesion already visible on CT imaging in the left parietal convexity with haemorrhagic discharge into the subarachnoid space and another larger lesion located in the right cerebellar hemisphere. Behind it there is another haemorrhagic microfocus. They are hyperintense in T1 and show no significant enhancement after gadolinium injection. The cerebellar lesion causes a discrete mass effect on the fourth ventricle without obliterating it, so there is no evidence of hydrocephalus. Non-specific diffusion study.
Ultrasound scan of the abdomen on day 8 of admission: mild homogeneous global hepatomegaly with homogeneous echostructure. Porta permeable. Suprahepatic veins not dilated. No space-occupying lesions (LOE) were observed. Adequately distended gallbladder with preserved wall and normal content. Bile ducts are not dilated. Pancreas and spleen of preserved size, morphology and echostructure. Kidneys of normal size and morphology. Excretory systems not dilated. No abdominal collections, ascites or ultrasound alterations in the gastrointestinal tract.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Given the clinical manifestations of constitutional syndrome and neurological focality, a cranial CT scan was requested in the emergency department where two lesions with a haemorrhagic component (one cerebral and the other cerebellar) were observed, which could be related to an embolic or metastatic origin. In order to identify their origin and given the presence of mitral systolic murmur on physical examination, a TTE scan was performed which showed a mass dependent on the posterior mitral leaflet with significant MR and a normal-sized left atrium, suggesting acute subacute MR. In addition, blood cultures and serology were taken in the emergency department. The diagnosis of IE was established given the presence of one major criterion (mass dependent on the posterior mitral leaflet) and two minor criteria (fever and embolisms at the level of the brain, cerebellum and IIJS). Despite significant mitral regurgitation, the patient was haemodynamically and neurologically stable, with no signs of heart failure, so it was decided to admit him to the cardiology ward. After discussion with on-call internal medicine (infectious diseases), given his allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics, the aggressiveness of his symptoms and his residence near an area endemic for methicillin- and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus strains, empirical antibiotic treatment was started with daptomycin iv 675 mg/24 hours, gentamicin iv 200 mg/24 hours and fosfomycin iv 4 g/8 hours. Twenty-four hours after admission, a thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed, revealing multiple embolisms and abscesses in the left kidney and spleen. Transesophageal echocardiography was also performed, revealing a mitral perivalvular abscess in the region of the posteromedial commissure, encompassing part of the A3-P3 scallops and causing severe mitral insufficiency due to partial rupture of the posterior mitral leaflet. At 48 hours later, a cranial MRI was performed, which showed two lesions compatible with infarcts with haemorrhagic transformation and a funduscopic examination to rule out Candida involvement (showing emboligenic involvement). Subsequently, intense asthenia persisted, with slight improvement in neurological symptoms and febrile peaks of up to 39 ̊C. After 72 hours of admission, Aggregatibacter aphrophilus was isolated in several blood cultures, so with two major and two minor criteria the diagnosis of definite IE was established. Once the antibiogram was obtained (fourth day of admission), with no resistance, the infectious diseases department decided to adjust antibiotherapy consisting of ceftriaxone 2 g/24 hours and ciprofloxacin 500 mg/24 hours (controlled administration after verifying an unlikely allergy to penicillins in childhood, and consulting with the HRV allergy department). Clinical improvement in the neurological sphere, with persistence of occasional febrile peaks, so that on the eighth day of admission an ultrasound scan of the abdomen was requested, which was compatible with normality. The case was presented at the medical-surgical session on the third day of admission and in constant communication with cardiac surgery, and after consultation with neurology, it was decided to complete a certain period of time with antibiotherapy prior to surgery. Subsequent good clinical evolution, afebrile, with improvement in writing and controls by radiology by means of CT and MRI (brain MRI control after 10 days which showed a reduction in microbleeds, microinfarcts and previous intraparenchymal haemorrhage). Extraction of the affected tooth by maxillofacial surgery. Finally, on the 33rd day of admission, mitral valve replacement with Saint Jude mechanical prosthesis no. 33 was performed, confirming the diagnosis of infective endocarditis (perivalvular abscess) by pathological anatomy and microbiology. Correct postoperative evolution without incident, being discharged on the 16th day after surgery. He has remained clinically stable until the present day, and has resumed his teaching activity.

DIAGNOSIS
Subacute infective endocarditis on native mitral valve due to Aggregatibacter aphrophilus. Perivalvular mitral abscess in the region of the posteromedial commissure, encompassing part of the A3-P3 scallops and causing severe mitral insufficiency due to partial rupture of the posterior mitral leaflet. Multiple septic embolisms (cerebral, cerebellar, splenic, left renal, retinal, distal extremities). Haemorrhagic transformation of cerebral embolic lesions located in the left parietal convexity and right cerebellar hemisphere. Mitral valve replacement with Saint Jude mechanical prosthesis no. 33.
