HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
50-year-old male, ex-smoker with no other history of interest, suffered out-of-hospital CPR. On arrival of the emergency services, advanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) manoeuvres were started and VF was observed, requiring five shocks to restore sinus rhythm. Total CPR time was 40 minutes. She was transferred to the intensive care unit for support and treatment.
Physical examination revealed no significant findings, and the patient remained haemodynamically stable with no signs of heart failure (HF) or audible murmurs.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
TROPONIN I 0.33 --> 5.39 mcg/l.
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG): sinus rhythm with evolution towards inferior necrosis: Q wave in II, III and aVf with accompanying R and flattened repolarisation.
THORAX RADIOGRAPHY: no alterations.
CRANIAL CT: no significant alterations.
CORONARY CHORONARYGRAPHY: coronary arteries without significant stenosis.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle (LV) neither dilated nor hypertrophic, borderline LVEF (50-52%), akinesia of inferior face and basal inferior septum. Normal diastolic pattern for age. Right ventricle (RV) neither dilated nor hypertrophic, preserved systolic function (TAPSE 20 mm, S wave Ì12 cm/sec). Atria of normal size. Aortic valve trivalve, thin leaflets normofunctioning. Thin leaflet mitral valve with mild central insufficiency. Structurally normal tricuspid valve without insufficiency allowing estimation of pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PSAP). No indirect evidence of pulmonary hypertension. Inferior vena cava (IVC) slightly dilated (23 mm) with inspiratory collapse > 50%. Aortic root not dilated (34 mm sinuses of Valsalva). No pericardial effusion.
CARDIAC MRI9 MAGNETIC RESONANCE showing: LV slightly dilated with preserved systolic function. Thinning and hypocontractility in inferoseptal, inferior and inferolateral segments at basal and medial level with oedema, hypoperfusion and subendocardial late enhancement greater than 50% in these segments. RV of normal size and function. These findings are compatible with acute phase infarction.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Given the high suspicion of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) as the cause of the CRA, and that it was a primary VF, cardiac MRI was requested in which signs compatible with acute phase infarction were observed. The patient evolved favourably, with early extubation, without neurological sequelae and maintaining haemodynamic stability.
Days later he was discharged under double antiplatelet therapy, beta-blocker, high-potency statin and proton pump inhibitors (PPI). Up to the present time, he continues to progress well.

DIAGNOSIS
CRP in VF in the context of inferior AMI.
Coronary arteries without significant lesions.
Preserved LV systolic function.
