HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
No drug allergies.
No toxic habits.
Cardiovascular risk factors: Arterial hypertension. Dyslipidaemia.

Cardiological history:
PAF subjected to ablation in 2015.
Chronic ischaemic heart disease, debut in 2010 as exertional angina, and underwent percutaneous revascularisation by implanting a conventional stent in the circumflex artery. In 2013, readmission for unstable angina with percutaneous revascularisation and implantation of a stent-eluting stent in the proximal segment of the anterior descending artery.
Ejection fraction preserved.

Other antecedents:
Spondyloarthrosis.
Prostatic syndrome.
Bilateral hearing loss.
Surgical interventions:
Pertrochanteric fracture of the left hip in 2018.
Baseline situation: independent for basic activities of daily living. Preserved higher functions.
Home treatment: carvedilol 25 mg, half a tablet every 12 hours. Omeprazole 20 mg, 1 tablet every 24 hours. Ramipril 5 mg, 1 tablet every 24 hours. Ezetimibe 10 mg/atorvastatin 80 mg, 1 tablet every 24 hours. Edoxaban 60 mg, 1 tablet every 24 hours. Alendronic acid every 28 days.


Present illness
A 76-year-old man came to the emergency department with fluctuating weakness of the left limbs after a fierce argument with his son and associated nervousness. He was assessed by neurology with no other neurological deficit and a simple CT scan of the skull was performed with no early signs or acute ischaemic lesions, and angio-CT without occlusion of a large vessel. As a result, and in view of the improvement in symptoms, the patient was discharged with recommendations on alarm data. Four days later, he returned to the emergency department due to a progressive worsening of his symptoms, and a new cranial CT scan was performed which confirmed the existence of an established infarct with a new appearance of a hypodense focal area in the right lenticular and radial crown.
The patient was treated with edoxaban as anticoagulation for PAF, ensuring good compliance with treatment.

Physical examination
Good general condition. Haemodynamically stable, blood pressure 128/68 mmHg and heart rate 53 bpm. Afebrile. Eupneic at rest and when speaking, with total tolerance of decubitus.
Normal colour and no skin lesions.
Neurological examination: good level of consciousness, he was able to name, understand and repeat without language alterations. No oculocephalic deviation or campimetric deficit. Pupils isochoric and normoreactive to light and accommodation. Preserved external ocular motors. Left gestural asymmetry. Claudica without contact with bed with left limbs (requires insistence to perform antigravity manoeuvres). Hypoalgesia in left hemibody. No dysmetria, no dysarthria, no parietal cortical data. Walking with the help of two people.
Cardiopulmonary auscultation: rhythmic, without murmurs and with preserved vesicular murmur without added pathological noises.
Abdomen: soft, depressible, no masses or megaliths palpable and painless on palpation.
Lower limbs: no oedema, no fovea and no evidence of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram: sinus bradycardia at 53 beats per minute. Normal axis. PR 240 ms. QRS 80 ms. R amputated in aVL. Elevation of the J point in the inferolateral face.
CBC: glucose 105 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.84 mg/dl. Sodium 140 mEq/l. Potassium 4 mEq/l. Leukocytes 7900 (68% polymorphonuclear). Haemoglobin 12 g/dl. Platelets 183,000. INR 1.21. Troponin T ultrasensitive 15 ng/l. Creatine kinase 59 U/l.
Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. Prominent aortic button. Thickened hilae, with increased bronchovascular raster and redistribution to the vertex.
Cranial CT scan: hypodense focal area in the right lenticular and radial crown, compatible with established focal infarction. No other relevant findings.
Transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography: the left atrium (LA) is not dilated (36 mm). The mitral valve has normal leaflets, without insufficiency. The left ventricle (LV) is of normal dimensions (end-diastolic diameter 44 mm). Ejection fraction by Simpson biplane 60% without regional contractility alterations. Septum 10 mm. Posterior wall 8 mm. Mitral E 79 cm/s, A: 64 cm/s. Trivalve aortic valve with good opening and closing. Sinuses of Valsalva: 37 mm, ascending tubular aorta: 32 mm. Right ventricle of normal size and contractility. Normal tricuspid valve without insufficiency.
Mild pulmonary insufficiency with mean pulmonary artery pressure 14 mmHg. Normal inferior vena cava. No pericardial effusion. Large mobile mass in LA with wide insertion pedicle of 21 mm, in the posterior wall of the atrial roof. In this area of the atrial wall there is a minimal pericardial fluid sheet of 1.5 mm. The mass is 6.1 cm long (maximum width 2 cm), highly mobile, polylobulated-branched, with an irregular surface and several long, mobile outgrowths. The length of the mass causes it to prolapse in diastole through the mitral orifice into the base of the LV without causing mitral obstruction. The echogenicity of the mass is hypoechoic in the area of implantation, with the rest being of higher echogenicity, with some rounded hypoechoic area in the body. Mitral valve with normal leaflets, without insufficiency.
Left atrial appendage without thrombus. Normal aortic valve and proximal aorta. Descending thoracic aorta with some uncomplicated atheroma plaque. Conclusions: large mass (6.1 x 2 cm) mobile in left atrium, inserted with wide pedicle (2.1 cm) in atrial roof-posterior wall.
Thoracoabdominal CT scan: LA of normal dimensions. Hypodense mass of irregular contours and with excrescences that seems to be fixed in the angle formed by the posterior wall of the LA with the inferoposterior slope of the interatrial septum (below the mouth of the right inferior pulmonary vein without affecting its drainage). Its approximate dimensions are 47 x 21 mm in the apical 4C (Ap x T) plane and a CC axis of 29 mm in the EL plane. Apart from the described anchorage, its growth is fundamentally intracavitary, with no invasiveness of adjacent cardiovascular structures. Slight overlapping of the mitral valve plane towards the LV. LV and right chambers of normal dimensions. High coronary calcium load in the proximal course of the coronary arteries. Thoracic aorta of normal calibre, slightly elongated and with calcium-predominant atheromatosis in the arch and origin of supra-aortic trunks. Pulmonary trunk of normal dimensions, as well as the branches, without repletion defects. No adenomegaly or suspicious lymph nodes. Signs of smoking can be seen in the lung parenchyma. Biapical fibrocystic tracts. No pulmonary consolidations or nodules are identified. Liver of adequate size and attenuation, without identifying LOEs. No significant findings in the gallbladder, bile duct, splenoportal axis, spleen, adrenal or pancreas. Kidneys of normal size and differentiation with several post-pelonephritic cortical scars and parapelvic and cortical cysts. No dilatation of their excretory systems. Moderately replete urinary bladder with no areas of mural thickening. Moderate prostatic hypertrophy. Stomach almost empty, not very appreciable.
Small bowel loops and right colon with mural thickness caliber disruption. Moderate aortoiliac atheromatosis. No inguinal adenomegaly of suspicious appearance. Osteoporosis.
Central wedging of L2 in this context AND more mildly in some dorsal bodies.
Fracture of the left femur treated with nail and screw consolidated. Conclusion: irregular hypodense mass anchored in the angle between the lower wall of the LA and the posteroinferior aspect of the interatrial septum. No signs of current metastatic spread.
Coronary angiography: right radial access. Coronary arteries with previously implanted stents in anterior descending artery and circumflex artery without restenosis and without other significant lesions. Right dominance.
Pathological anatomy: multiple tissue fragments of gelatinous consistency, the largest of which was 2x1 cm, one of which was found adhered to the muscle wall. Conclusion: myxoma with respect of the implantation base.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
On admission to the neurology ward, and in view of the suspected embolic origin of the stroke, a regular echocardiography was requested, where the culprit of the event was discovered. Initially, a transthoracic study was performed, where a normal heart was visualised, finding a large mobile mass (6.1 x 2 cm) attached to the posterior wall of the left atrium, so for a better characterisation the study was completed with transesophageal echocardiography. Despite the high suspicion of myxoma, the characteristics of the mass (wide insertion not in the interatrial septum, polylobulated-branched and with hypoechoic areas inside) do not clearly indicate this aetiology, but rather extend the differential diagnosis to other entities with a worse prognosis... such as sarcoma. A CT scan of the thorax and abdomen was performed, which provided some reassurance as no signs of metastatic dissemination were observed.
After diagnosis, the patient was transferred to the cardiology ward, where the pre-surgical study was completed (coronary angiography with stability of coronary disease). After a week of hospitalisation, without complications and with greater safety from the point of view of intracranial haemorrhagic risk, surgery was performed, in which wedge resection of the floor of the left atrium was performed with the implantation base of the tumour, which the surgeons described as a brownish, gelatinous and very friable tumour.
Subsequent evolution in the intensive care unit and on the cardiology ward was very favourable and without complications. The patient was discharged 7 days after the operation, and in agreement with neurology, anticoagulation was restarted with edoxaban 60 mg every 24 hours. After the anatomopathological study of the surgical specimen, it was possible to name the tumour, confirming the initial suspicion of myxoma that the echocardiography had provided.
The patient is currently undergoing motor rehabilitation due to the sequelae of left lower limb hemiparesis, and from the cardiological point of view he is asymptomatic and without any complications.

DIAGNOSIS
Ischaemic stroke in the right choroidal artery of embolic origin.
Pedunculated atrial myxoma implanted in the roof of the left atrium.
Surgical excision of left atrial myxoma without complications.
Normal left ventricular function.
Stable chronic coronary syndrome with two-vessel disease (Cx and LAD) with complete percutaneous revascularisation.
Residual left lower limb hemiparesis as a sequel to the ischemic stroke.
