HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

PERSONAL HISTORY
Independent in basic and instrumental activities of daily living. Active life.
Works in the countryside.
Toxic habits: active smoker of 1 pack a day (20 cigarettes/day) since the age of 17.
No history of hypertension, diabetes or dyslipidaemia.
No history of cardiovascular disease.
Other medical history: chronic pharyngitis, herniated disc at C5-C6 and C7-D1.
No previous surgical interventions.
No medical treatment at present.

CURRENT ILLNESS
She initially consulted the emergency department of our hospital for symptoms consisting of diffuse abdominal pain, persistent nausea and vomiting despite home treatment.
As associated symptomatology, she reported a non-thermometric dysthermic sensation of months of evolution together with associated diaphoresis, predominantly at night. The complementary tests performed were suggestive of acute pancreatitis (increased amylase in blood and urine), so a CT scan of the abdomen with contrast showed findings compatible with mild pancreatitis. At the same time, the images obtained at the lower thoracic level showed a hypodense image with well-defined borders located in the left atrium dependent on the interatrial septum compatible with an intracardiac mass, and atrial myxoma was considered the first possibility. Based on these findings, the patient was assessed by cardiology, who decided to admit the patient to our care to continue the study.


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Blood pressure (BP) 163/95. Heart rate (HR) 60 beats per minute. Baseline O2 saturation 98% by pulse oximetry.
Acceptable general condition. Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Haemodynamically stable. Eupneic at rest.
Normal skin colour and no lesions, with increased body temperature (temperature 38 ̊C).
No palpable lymph nodes in the cervical, axillary, inguinal or other areas.
No jugular venous engorgement.
Cardiac auscultation with rhythmic tones at a good frequency with no murmurs.
Pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur.
Abdomen soft and depressible, with pain on palpation in the epigastrium and both hypochondrium. Purphy negative. Hydro-aerial sounds were preserved on abdominal auscultation. No masses or visceromegaly palpable.
Lower limbs without malleolar oedema. Pulses preserved and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Precios bill' Pun a
Haemogram: red blood cells 4,350,000/ul. Dutch anall interpreyesase reiter a MCV 97.2 fl. MCH 33.6 pg
Leukocytes 10090/ul. Neutrophils 9070/ul (89.9% of the total). Lymphocytes 390/ul (6% of the total). Rest of the differential count without alterations. Atacados WAME WAME prin/ F a
Coagulation: INR 0.97. En Independa graasete 25 a
Blood biochemistry (not carried out on an empty stomach): glycaemia 168 mg/dl. Ex serviciosology discustendol a
Creatinine 0.62 mg/dl. Dices invitaciónti0P dual a Potassium 4.2 mEq/l. Calcium 9.6 mg/dl. Boparas ex dual a Fridqournal dual a Synopsisque reóvil exzuki dual a Total bilirubin 0.3 mg/dl. Asi: así8 ex dual a CPK 182 U/l. TnThs: 171 ng/l (2nd a posteriori determination: 250 ng/l). CRP: 54.
Urinalysis: density 1041. pH 6. Proteins 20 mg/dl. Glucose: 0. Ketone bodies ++. Bilirubin: -. Nitrites: -. Red blood cells: -. Leucocytes: -: -. Alpha amylase: 1109.
Chest X-ray: poorly inspired. Enlargement of the bronchovascular tract. No increase in cardiac silhouette, with normal cardiothoracic index.
Electrocardiogram (ECG) on admission: sinus rhythm at 68 beats per minute. No pathological increase in voltage or P wave duration. 160 msec PR interval. Narrow QRS of 80 msec duration, with axis at -30o, with morphology of incomplete right bundle branch block. No pathological alterations of repolarisation were observed.
QTc of 404 msec.
Contrast-enhanced CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis: slight enlargement of the pancreatic head and uncinate process with infiltration of the adjacent fat, without evidence of collections, suggestive of mild acute pancreatitis. Hepatic steatosis, with several simple cysts.
Aliased gallbladder, without intrahepatic or extrahepatic bile duct dilatation. Spleen without pathological alterations. No intra-abdominal free fluid is seen. Hypodense mass inside the left atrium of about 4 cm. This lesion has well-defined borders, spherical morphology, with a calcific point inside and a pedicle that depends on the interatrial septum. The mass prolapses towards the left ventricle, as can be seen in successive slices.
Transthoracic echocardiography: left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophic (LVED 50 mm; IVS 10 mm; PP 10 mm) with preserved global systolic function (LVEF 59% by Simpson). No segmental alterations of contractility were observed. Aortic root not dilated. Trivalve aortic valve with mild degenerative involvement.
Dilated left atrium (volume 81 cm3), showing a pedunculated mass with well-defined borders anchored at the level of the fossa ovalis, measuring 50 x 26 mm, which prolapses towards the ventricle in diastole, dragging the anterior mitral leaflet. These findings suggest left atrial myxoma as the first diagnostic option. Non-dilated right chambers, with a normofunctioning right ventricle (TAPSE 25 mm). Doppler study with normal transmitral flows (Vel. E 1.09 m/s; Vel A 0.9 m/s), without pathological increase in pressure gradients (mean gradient 3 mmHg). Mitral insufficiency grade II with jet projected towards the lateral wall of the left atrium. Aortic valve with normal antegrade flows (max. velocity 1.15 m/s), with no evidence of valvular insufficiency.
Coronary angiography: left dominance, without lesions in coronary arteries.
Pathological anatomy of the resected mass: nodular formation of 26 g and 4.5 x 4 x 3 cm in size. Smooth, shiny and brownish surface. Serial sections show a heterogeneous surface with blackish and other irregular whitish areas, including some cystic areas histologically compatible with atrial myxoma with large areas of haemorrhage and thrombosis.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
When atrial myxoma was suspected in the CT scan, studies were completed with transthoracic echocardiography and coronary angiography. With the presumptive diagnosis of left atrial myxoma, the case was discussed with cardiovascular surgery, who advised deferring surgery until the pancreatic symptoms were controlled. During the first few days of admission, the patient remained stable from a clinical and haemodynamic point of view. There was a progressive improvement in the abdominal symptoms, which allowed for the reintroduction of an oral diet, without incident. A new abdominal CT scan was performed, which ruled out late complications derived from the pancreatic symptoms.
In view of the evolutionary course, surgery was performed on the 14th day of admission. Opening was performed by conventional median sternotomy and, accessing through the right atriotomy, the left atrial mass was resected along with its pedicle, closing the residual septal defect by direct suture. Pathological anatomy confirms the diagnosis of atrial myxoma, with extensive areas of haemorrhage and thrombosis.
The evolution after surgery was long and torpid. His stay in the post-surgical unit was marked by the appearance of supraventricular tachycardia at 130 bpm compatible with atrial flutter, with recurrent behaviour despite several attempts at electrical cardioversion, some of which caused the tachyarrhythmia to temporarily degenerate into atrial fibrillation. Rhythm control was attempted with antiarrhythmic treatment (amiodarone), but had to be discontinued due to the appearance of complete atrioventricular block. Optimal ventricular rate control is also not achieved by adding beta-blockers to the treatment. Given that the ventricular response to the arrhythmia was well tolerated by the patient, it was decided to discharge the patient to the cardiology ward to optimise treatment.
The situation was discussed with the arrhythmology department and an electrophysiological study was scheduled, which revealed counterclockwise atrial flutter, and successful ablation of the cavotricuspid isthmus was performed. After completing the procedure, together with the cessation of the arrhythmia, loss of sinus leakage above 40 bpm was observed. This situation required the placement of a transient pacing device and the implantation of a permanent pacemaker (DDDR) was programmed.
After implantation, the patient evolved satisfactorily and was discharged a few days after implantation.

DIAGNOSIS
Left atrial myxoma.
Mild acute pancreatitis (RANSON 0).
Counterclockwise isthmic atrial flutter with successful ablation.
Transient atrial fibrillation in immediate postoperative period CHA2DS2-VASc 1; HAS-BLED 1.
Sinus dysfunction with need for DDDR permanent pacemaker implantation, in sinus rhythm at discharge.
