HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
Family history of ischaemic heart disease in his father at 47 years of age, and in two maternal uncles at 42 and 50 years of age respectively. No known drug allergies. Cardiovascular risk factors: no hypertension, no diabetes, no dyslipidaemia. Obesity (body mass index [BMI] 35). No toxic habits.

Cardiological history: assessed in 2012 for progressive exertional angina, antianginal and anti-ischaemic treatment was started and an echocardiogram was performed with globally and segmentally preserved systolic function; given clinical persistence despite medical treatment, coronary catheterisation was performed with no significant angiographic lesions. Cardiological treatment was withdrawn, anxiolytics and the usual analgesics were started, and the patient was discharged from cardiology consultations. Referred again in 2014 for progressive exertional angina, with sporadic episodes at rest, which persisted despite antidepressant treatment combined with the usual analgesics, it was decided to request another coronary catheterisation, again showing no significant angiographic lesions. She was again discharged from cardiology and referred to psychiatry by her primary care physician. Referred again in 2019 due to functional worsening, with persistent episodes of chest pain on exertion and isolated episodes of greater intensity at rest. In this case, a diagnosis of "syndrome X" was made and only ranolazine 375 mg/12 hours was added to her treatment (without antiplatelet agents or statins) and myocardial perfusion SPECT, a new transthoracic echocardiogram and a review in one year with the results were requested.

No other history of interest. Baseline situation: sedentary lifestyle. Life limited by episodes of chest pain with significant impairment and secondary emotional lability. Usual treatment: ranolazine 375 mg/ 12 hours, sertraline 50 mg at breakfast, lorazepam 2 mg 1 tablet at breakfast and another at dinner, paracetamol 650 mg/tramadol 75 mg every 8 hours and ibuprofen 400 mg on demand.

Current illness
Consultation at the emergency department for an episode of oppressive central thoracic pain, with significant accompanying neurovegetative symptoms, onset at rest, self-limiting, lasting about 20 minutes and with significant emotional involvement. He says that it reminds him of previous episodes of chest pain and that he has already had several coronary angiographies and that "he has never had to have stents fitted", but that he has recently undergone a test to study his heart, which he cannot specify and that he is awaiting a review in the outpatient cardiology department with the results next week. After reviewing the patient's history and medical records, it is found that a few weeks ago a myocardial perfusion SPECT was performed showing inducible myocardial ischaemia in the anterior aspect. Serial electrocardiograms performed in the emergency department, carried out when the patient was no longer in pain, showed no changes or dynamic alterations suggestive of ischaemia. The study was completed by enzyme seriation, which was found to be normal. Chest X-ray with no findings. However, despite the normality of the complementary tests performed in the emergency department, they decided to contact the on-call cardiology team for assessment.

Physical examination
On arrival, the patient was haemodynamically stable, with a blood pressure of 130/60 mmHg, a heart rate of 64 beats per minute and an oxygen saturation of 98% at baseline. She was oriented and cooperative, with marked emotional lability and crying. Physical examination was unremarkable. Echocardioscopy showed preserved systolic function globally and segmentally, without significant valvular heart disease or pericardial effusion. At the insistence of the patient and her history, it was decided to admit her to hospital for readjustment of medical treatment and to assess the possibility of performing a new coronary catheterisation with invasive functional study to rule out coronary vasospasm and/or microvascular dysfunction as the aetiology of the chest pain.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests: glucose 83 mg/dl, glycosylated haemoglobin (A1c) 5.3%, creatinine (serum) 0.86 mg/dl, glomerular filtration rate calculated by CKD-EPI formula 76 ml/min/1.73 m2, urea 38 mg/dl 21 - 43, uric acid 4.1 mg/dl, total proteins 7.7 g/dl, total cholesterol 147 mg/dl, hDL cholesterol 45 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol (calculated) 125 mg/dl, triglycerides 98 mg/dl, total bilirubin 0.72 mg/dl, aspartate transaminase (GOT) 19 U/l, alanine transaminase (GPT) 22, haemoglobin 12.7 g/dl, leucocytes 9745 x 103μl, platelets 289 x 103μl. Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 67 beats per minute, PR 180 ms, normal axis, narrow QRS, QTc 410 ms, no acute repolarisation abnormalities. Chest X-ray: cardiothoracic index within the normal range. Free costophrenic sinuses, no evidence of vascular redistribution. No masses or consolidations.

Echocardioscopy: preserved systolic function without segmentarity. Absence of significant valvulopathies. No pericardial effusion. Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle (LV) of normal size, thickness and systolic and diastolic function. Right ventricle (RV) of normal size and function. Left atrium (LA) and right atrium (RA) of normal size. No valvular heart disease. No indirect signs of pulmonary hypertension (PHT). Aortic root of normal size. No pericardial effusion. Myocardial perfusion SPECT: Mild precordial pressure without ECG alteration during regadenoson administration Baseline HR 90 bpm post-stress 120 bpm. Post-stress study shows anteroseptal myocardial hypocaptation which normalises at rest. Findings suggestive of myocardial ischaemia induced in the territory of the anterior descending coronary artery (AD). Coronary catheterisation with invasive functional study: coronary tree of normal distribution and development. Right dominance. Absence of angiographically significant lesions. A study of microvascular dysfunction was performed by thermodilution with saline boluses and an IMR of 78 and a CFR of 0.8 were obtained, indicating severe microvascular dysfunction. Positive vasoreactivity test with acetylcholine in the territory of the anterior descending artery at a dose of 100 μm (reduction of coronary diameter > 90%, ischaemic changes in the electrocardiogram and clinical signs of angina). Conclusion: severe microvascular dysfunction and coronary spasm in the territory of the anterior descending coronary artery.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Once admitted to the cardiology ward, anti-ischaemic and anti-anginal treatment was reinforced, and a transthoracic echocardiogram and a new coronary catheterisation with invasive functional study were requested. The echocardiographic study showed preserved global and segmental systolic function, without systolic dysfunction or valvular heart disease. However, the coronary catheterisation performed showed no significant angiographic lesions, with no changes with respect to previous studies. It was decided to perform a complete functional study in the haemodynamics room using thermodilution with saline boluses and intravenous adenosine perfusion to obtain the microvascular resistance index (MRI) and coronary flow reserve (CFR). The results obtained were markers of severe microvascular dysfunction: MRI 78 (cut-off point <25) and CFR of 0.8 (cut-off point >2-2.5). The study was completed with the coronary vasoreactivity test to rule out coronary vasospasm, which was positive in the territory of the anterior descending coronary artery with an intracoronary dose of 100 μg (reduction in coronary diameter greater than 90%, dynamic alterations in the ECG and clinical symptoms of angina). Given these results, the patient was diagnosed with severe microvascular dysfunction and coronary vasospasm, and it was decided to progressively withdraw anxiolytic and antidepressant treatment, and acetylsalicylic acid, atorvastatin, amlodipine and nitroglycerin night patches were added, showing clear symptomatic improvement, as well as a marked decrease in emotional lability on finally learning the aetiology of the chest pain. At the review 12 months after admission to the cardiology outpatient clinic, the patient is asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view, and has managed to discontinue all antidepressant and anxiolytic medication and has progressively begun to engage in physical activity with excellent tolerance.


DIAGNOSIS
Angina with documented ischaemia in AD territory with coronary arteries without significant lesions (INOCA).
Severe microvascular dysfunction confirmed by invasive functional study.
Coronary vasospasm in the territory of the anterior descending artery induced during acetylcholine test.
Preserved global and segmental systolic function.
