Male, 72 years old.

History
Arterial hypertension, non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, ex-smoker and dyslipidaemia as main cardiovascular risk factors.
Cardiological history: implantation of a mechanical aortic prosthesis in 2005 due to severe aortic stenosis in bicuspid valve.
Home treatment: lorazepam 1/day, acenocoumarol, torasemide 5 mg 1/day, telmisartan 80 mg 1/day, metformin 850 mg 1/12 h, omeprazole 20 mg 1/day.
Previously well, the patient presented with absence of language and loss of strength and sensitivity in the entire right hemisphere.
The SAMU was notified and activated the Stroke Code, arriving at the emergency department in a conventional ambulance with an estimated NIHSS of 16.
In previous days she had referred mild catarrhal symptoms associated with a feeling of dystrophy.

Physical examination
Neurological (NIHSS score): alert (0). Does not answer questions or obey orders (2+2). Gaze deviation to the left (1). Central facial paresis D (2). Paresis 4/5 in right upper limb (1). Paresis 2/5 in right lower limb (3). Not assessable sensitivity although to painful manoeuvre, slight withdrawal (1). Ataxia not assessable (0). Mutism (3+1). Not assessable extinction. BP 120/75 mmHg, Sat 99 % with nasal goggles at 3 bpm, HR 70. Temperature not recorded AC: RsCsRs without audible murmurs, prosthetic click. AP: mvc, no added sounds. Abdomen: soft, depressible. MMII without oedema or signs of DVT.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 66 bpm. Left anterior hemiblock.
Chest X-ray: no condensation or signs of HF.
Laboratory tests: biochemistry: Glc 187 mg/dl. Urea 45 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.95 mg/dl. Na 133 mmol/l. K 4.8 mmol/L. TnT 16 ng/l (normal < 35 ng/l). CPK 66 U/l (normal < 200 U/l). Haemogram: Hb 12.8 g/dl. Ht 34.9. Leukocytes 14,300/uL with 78 % neutrophils. Platelets 199.000/uL. Coagulation: PT 45 %; INR 1.86.
Cranial CT: discrete hypodensity with loss of differentiation between grey matter and white matter at the level of the left frontal insula and operculum, compatible with acute ischaemic lesion (ASPECTS 8). No intra- or extra-axial haemorrhages are observed. Morphology of sulci and ventricles within normal limits for the patient's age. Discrete bilateral periventricular hypodensity compatible with chronic small vessel disease. Centred midline. Permeable base cisterns.
Cerebral perfusion CT: in the superficial territory of the left MCA there is an increase in time to peak, mean transit time and drainage time, with a decrease in cerebral blood flow. At the level of the insula and the left frontal operculum there is a decrease in volume, compatible with established infarction, while in the rest of the superficial territory of the left MCA the volume is preserved, compatible with a penumbra area.
Angio-CT of supra-aortic trunks and Willis polygon: repletion defect at the level of the distal M1 segment of the left MCA, with poor distal collateral circulation. No other repletion defects, aneurysmal formations or other alterations at the level of the intra- or extracranial circulation. Absence of both posterior communicating arteries. Carotid shafts slightly elongated. Patent vertebral arteries with right dominance. Basilar artery dependent exclusively on the right vertebral artery, with left vertebral artery leading directly into the PICA.
Cerebral angiography: under sedation, cerebral arteriography was performed via the right femoral approach, without groin complications. Occlusion of the distal M1 segment of the left MCA was confirmed, with the existence of a proximal loop in the internal carotid artery. We proceeded to perform mechanical thrombectomy with an extractor device, achieving complete recanalisation of this artery, although with migration of two small emboli: one in the distal posterior parietal region (non-occlusive embolus) and the other in the sylvian region.
Blood cultures: positive for Enterococcus faecalis.
TTE and TEE: endocarditis on prosthetic aortic valve. Ascending aortic aneurysm of 49 mm. Mechanical aortic prosthesis with good disc mobility, maximum gradient of 35 mmHg, washout insufficiency. Two vibrational images compatible with vegetation visualised in LVOT are observed. Thickening of the aortic root and mitro-aortic junction suggestive of abscess at this level. MV with mild insufficiency. LV of normal dimensions with preserved systolic function. RV of normal dimensions with normal function. Moderate TR, with estimated PSAP of 30 mmHg plus PVC. Normal vena cava. No pericardial effusion.

EVOLUTION
On arrival at the emergency department, on suspicion of acute stroke, the above-mentioned complementary tests were performed and cerebral angiography confirmed the presence of occlusion of the distal M1 segment of the middle cerebral artery. As a result, mechanical thrombectomy was performed, achieving complete recanalisation of the artery. The patient was then admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for neurological and haemodynamic monitoring and surveillance. The patient progressed satisfactorily in the ICU, where a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed with suspicion of endocarditis. Isolation of Enterococcus faecalis in blood cultures. A transesophageal study was performed with the results described. Once stable, in the light of the echocardiographic findings, discharge from the ICU to the Cardiology ward was decided in order to assess valve surgery. During his admission to Cardiology, he was assessed by the Rehabilitation Service and Neurology, who began motor and phoniatric recovery exercises. Cardiologically, he remained stable, with prolonged PR. Two days later, the patient had two episodes of sudden loss of consciousness, and telemetry showed complete atrioventricular block, so he was transferred to the Coronary Unit for implantation of a provisional pacemaker via the right jugular vein. The case was discussed with Cardiac Surgery who, given the electrical worsening and the need for a temporary pacemaker on command to maintain stability, decided to perform surgery within 48 hours.
The patient underwent surgery two days later and a metallic valve prosthesis was extracted with abscess cleaning and a biological prosthesis was implanted in the aortic position, as well as a supracoronary tube due to the discovery of an aneurysm of the ascending aorta. Immediate and late postoperative evolution was favourable, except for the persistence of advanced AVB in ECG despite the absence of images compatible with abscesses in echocardiography, so it was decided to implant a definitive DDD pacemaker. Hospital discharge was decided in view of the good clinical evolution in the postoperative period 40 days after the neurological ischaemic event.

DIAGNOSIS
Late prosthetic endocarditis due to Enterococcus faecalis. Ischaemic stroke due to thrombotic occlusion in left middle cerebral artery. Thrombectomy performed successfully. Complete atrioventricular block with definitive DDDR pacemaker implantation (MCP). Aortic valve replacement with Perimount biological aortic prosthesis no23. ʟʟ Ascending aortic aneurysm. Supracoronary tube implantation.
