Background
42-year-old woman with no known drug allergies.
No hypertension, dyslipidaemia or diabetes mellitus.
No toxic habits.
Inactive ulcerative colitis under treatment. Periodic follow-up by digestology. Last colonoscopy in 2013.
Migraine in treatment with triptans.

Current illness
Puerpera patient with an uneventful pregnancy who, after the 4th day of euthocic delivery, began to feel dyspnoea with slight precordial pressure and headache, not associated with vegetatism. Elevated blood pressure and proteinuria were observed, and a diagnosis of pre-eclampsia was made. Creatinine levels were normal. A fundus examination was performed and found to be normal. After starting treatment with labetalol and magnesium sulphate, the patient progressed favourably, with control of blood pressure and improvement in headache and general condition. Laboratory tests showed an initial increase in LDH with a subsequent decrease. Labetalol ev and magnesium sulphate were maintained until 48 hours had elapsed, and the patient was subsequently switched to oral labetalol (300 mg/6h). Given the clinical and analytical stability, the patient was transferred to the hospital ward. During her stay in the hospital ward, the patient remained hypertensive despite nifedipine 10 mg/6h vo and enalapril 5 mg/12h vo. Recurrence of severe headaches without neurological focality, so a cranial CAT scan was performed, which was normal. Given the persistence of the headache and his history of migraine, sumatriptan was started with clinical improvement. After 48 hours of her stay on the ward, she presented peak blood pressure of 180/110 mmHg together with chest tightness. An ECG was performed, showing RS at 60 bpm, with normal PR, HBASHH, ST elevation of 0.5 mm anterolateral with negative T. Nitroglycerin perfusion was started and the patient was asymptomatic after 15 minutes. She was transferred to our centre from the maternity hospital. On arrival, no chest pain. BP 160/90 mmHg. HR 65 bpm. SaO2 100% (ambient air). No semiology of congestion.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: shows normalisation of ST, although HBASHH persists and minimal R in precordial leads. Initial TnI 0.7 ng/ml. Laboratory tests: CRP 0.95 mg/dl; creatinine 0.44 mg/dl; Na 141 mmol/L; K 3.8 mmol/l; leukocytes 6,800/mcl; Hb 130 g/l; Hto 40 %; Plaq 298,000/mcl; PT 86.2 %; D-dimer 10,000 ng/ml. A portable echocardiogram was performed, showing preserved LV systolic function, with hypokinesia of the apical segments and slight pericardial effusion. Chest X-ray: no cardiomegaly. No signs of parenchymal congestion. Free costophrenic sinuses.

EVOLUTION
Admitted to the Acute Cardiac Care Unit, presenting haemodynamic stability with a tendency to hypertension. No new episodes of chest pain or signs of congestion. Peak Tn I 24 ng/ml. Normal renal function. Twenty-four hours after arrival, coronary angiography showed coronary dissection of the distal LAD with apical recurrence (TIMI 3 flow) and conservative management was chosen. The echocardiogram showed non-dilated left ventricle with EF 50%. Septoapical hypokinesia and mild mitral insufficiency. Normal RV function. Anti-aggregation treatment was maintained with adiro 100 mg indefinitely and anticoagulant treatment was discontinued after 72 hours. Due to a tendency to hypertension, treatment was started with ACE inhibitors, amlodipine and beta-blockers. She was discharged home asymptomatic and with controlled blood pressure.

DIAGNOSIS
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection of the LAD in a postpartum patient.
