HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
18-year-old woman.
No known drug allergies.
No toxic habits.
Cardiological history: under follow-up in general cardiology consultations for mild mitral insufficiency secondary to mitral prolapse; asymptomatic with preserved biventricular systolic function.
G1P1A0. Instrumented delivery (vacuum extraction) with epidural anaesthesia on 23 January due to premature rupture of membranes at 40.3 weeks' gestation.

Present illness
The 18-year-old patient consulted for two days presenting with erratic episodes of oppressive, non-radiating, central thoracic pain lasting 15-20 minutes.
No catarrhal or diarrhoeal symptoms in previous days. Under treatment with bromocriptine since 27 January.

Physical examination
BP 123/71. HR 77 beats per minute. Ta 36°C. Conscious, oriented, good distal perfusion. Good general condition. Eupneic on room air without supplementary oxygen.
Tolerating decubitus. Head and neck: No IVY, no negative hepatojugular reflux. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, with a mesosystolic murmur II/IV predominantly in the apex. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, without added phenomena. Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation.
Extremities: no oedema, no evidence of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 82 beats per minute. ST elevation in DII, DIII and avF. Specular decrease in V2-v3 and aVL.
Control ECG: correction of previously described changes.
Blood tests: Leukocytes 13200 (N 69.4%, L 22%), Hb 14.1, platelets 349,000. D Dimer 106. Urea 21. Crreat 0.6. Na 136. K 3.9. Coagulation normal.
Markers of myocardial damage: 1st determination of TnI: 4.95 ng/ml. 2nd determination: 12.5 ng/ml (peak) (normal values less than 0.017 ng/ml)
Chest X-ray: no evidence of acute pleuropulmonary pathology. Cardiopericardial silhouette at the limit of normality.
TTE: non-dilated, non-hypertrophic left ventricle with preserved global and segmental LVEF. Normal diastolic pattern. Mitral insufficiency due to mild posterior leaflet prolapse. Trivalve aortic valve, without transvalvular gradient or significant insufficiency. Normal right chambers. No tricuspid insufficiency. No pericardial effusion. Inspiratory collapse of superior vena cava > 50% with respiration.
Coronary angiography: left coronary tree: LMCA without angiographically significant lesions. Anterior descending artery without significant lesions. Circumflex without angiographically significant lesions. Right dominance. Right coronary artery without angiographically significant lesions.

EVOLUTION
The patient was admitted to the Coronary Unit with a diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome with transient ST-segment elevation (suprathreshold is documented in the ECG at the health centre, with correction of changes in the ECG on arrival at our regional hospital) and treatment with bromocriptine was suspended. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed, showing preserved global and segmental left ventricular systolic function, with mitral insufficiency due to mitral prolapse already known.
Coronary angiography was performed in the first 24 hours, according to ESC guidelines recommendations, in which angiographically significant coronary lesions were ruled out.
The patient's evolution was favourable, remaining haemodynamically stable, with no arrhythmic or mechanical complications, and asymptomatic from the cardiovascular point of view.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute coronary syndrome with transient ST-segment elevation. Killip 1.
Coronary vasospasm secondary to bromocriptine.
Preserved left ventricular systolic function.
