HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
The patient is an 80-year-old woman, with a history of:
Risk factors: hypertension, dyslipidaemia, smoker of 2-3 cigarettes/day.
She has had a dual-chamber pacemaker since July 2015 due to sinus dysfunction and paroxysmal atrioventricular block (AVB) reprogrammed in VVI due to atrial lead failure.
In 2014 she was referred to cardiology for gait instability and palpitations. A regular echocardiogram was performed, which revealed a tumour mass in the left atrium, starting from the foramen ovale, probably an atrial myxoma, which slightly interfered with mitral valve kinetics, causing mild dynamic stenosis.
One year later, she had an ischaemic stroke of probable cardioembolic origin, and once she had recovered, it was decided to perform surgery on the myxoma, and a complete resection of the myxoma was performed with good results.
In 2016 and 2018, she had two episodes of posterior circulation stroke (POCI) of undetermined origin, with diplopia and instability. During these admissions, an echocardiogram was performed, which was normal, and Doppler of the supra-aortic trunk showed moderate stenosis of both carotid arteries, so it was decided to start antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid.

Current disease
Admitted in October 2019 for intermittent episodes of gait instability, assessed by neurology, a diagnosis of repeated vertebrobasilar transient ischaemic attack (TIA) was made and she was admitted to complete the study. During admission, an echocardiogram was performed which revealed a mass in the left atrium, suggesting recurrence of myxoma.

Physical examination
The patient was conscious and oriented in space and time. No language alterations, preserved nomation. Pupils isochoric and normoreactive. No nystagmus. EOM (external ocular motor) preserved. Examination of cranial nerves normal. Upper and lower limb strength preserved. Examination of superficial and deep sensitivity preserved. Bicipital and patellar osteotendinous reflexes preserved. Finger-nose and finger-finger test with some slowness, possible dysmetria. Romberg's sign doubtful. Stability with increased base of support, unstable gait with lateropulsion to the left. Tandem gait impossible for her. No signs of meningeal irritation.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic tones without audible murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, no extra sounds. Abdomen: soft and depressible, not painful on palpation, no palpable masses or megaliths, no signs of peritoneal irritation, preserved peristalsis. Lower limbs: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Pedial pulses were preserved.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 74 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, no repolarisation alterations.
Blood tests: biochemistry: glucose 105 mg/dl, urea 22 mg/dl, creatinine 0.66 mg/dl, Na 136 mmol/l, K 4.0 mmol/l. Haemogram: leucocytes 8400/mcl, Hb 13.3 mg/dl, Hto 39.8%, platelets 356000. Coagulation: INR 1.04, AP 99%, fibrinogen 5.9 g/l.
Chest X-ray: cardiomediastinal silhouette and pulmonary vascularisation within normality. Signs of chronic bronchopneumopathy. No other significant pleuroparenchymal alterations were observed. MCP with electrodes in the right cavities. Mid sternotomy sutures. Dorsal spondylosis
Brain computed tomography (CT): signs of chronic ischaemia. Infarcts in the right parietal lobe and at the left parasagittal level next to the convexity, both with an old appearance.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: left atrium (LA) of normal dimensions. Inside the left atrium there is an image of a heterogeneous, rounded, echodense mass, 21 x 23 mm in size, with a wide implantation base (15 mm) on the interatrial septum, which does not interfere with the correct kinetics of the mitral valve. Compatible with recurrence of atrial myxoma. Left ventricle not dilated, not hypertrophic. Preserved systolic function, without asymmetry of segmental contractility. Altered diastolic relaxation pattern. Right chambers of normal dimensions, normocontractile right ventricle. Aortic valve trivalve, not limited in its opening and competent. Mitral valve not limited in its opening, with mild mitral insufficiency. Mild tricuspid insufficiency (TI), with RV-AD gradient 25 mmHg. Inferior vena cana (IVC) not dilated, with preserved inspiratory collapse. Estimated normal PSAP. Absence of pericardial effusion or intracardiac masses.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During admission to neurology, anticoagulation with synthroid was started and the patient was considered for surgical reintervention. A diagnostic cardiac catheterisation was performed, which revealed coronary arteries without significant lesions, and an evaluation by the geriatrics department estimated a short-term mortality risk of 21%, recommending that surgery should be performed within a period of less than 6 months. Finally, she was re-evaluated in a medical-surgical session, and given the high surgical risk of the patient and her baseline clinical situation, conservative management was decided. During follow-up, she has not presented any further neurological symptoms.

DIAGNOSIS
Recurrence of atrial myxoma. Repeated TIA.
