HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
No known drug allergies. Ex-smoker for 3 months. Cardiovascular risk factors: hypertension (HT), dyslipidaemia and DM2. Hyperuricaemia. Significant stenosis of right internal carotid artery with percutaneous revascularisation with stent in 2015. Usual treatment: acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg every 24 h, bisoprolol 2.5 mg every 24 h, atorvastatin 80 mg every 24 h, ramipril 5 mg every 24 h, omeprazole 20 mg every 24 h, metformin+empaglifozin 5 mg/1,000 mg every 12 h, lormetazepam 2 mg every 24 h.

Present illness
A 58-year-old male patient with the previously described family and personal history and under follow-up in outpatient cardiology consultations for progressive angina of 2 months' evolution and segmental alterations in transthoracic echocardiography, who was admitted to the ward for scheduled coronary angiography.

Physical examination
Good general condition, well hydrated and perfused. Eupneic at rest, tolerates decubitus. Blood pressure: 147/92 mmHg. Heart rate: 65 bpm. Central obesity. Height 165 cm. Weight 97,5 kg. Body mass index (BMI) 35,81. Cardiorespiratory auscultation with rhythmic tones, no murmurs. Conservative vesicular murmur with no added noises. Absence of oedema in the lower limbs with pulses present.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 65 bpm, normal axis. Normal PR. QRS with right bundle branch block image, Q wave in DII, DIII and avF. Laboratory tests on admission: glomerular filtration rate 78 ml/min, glucose 148 mg/dl, Hb1Ac 8.3%. Lipid profile with total cholesterol 307 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 215 mg/dl, triglycerides 513 mg/dl. GOT 20 IU/l, GPT 33 IU/l. Transthoracic echocardiogram: left atrium not dilated. Non-dilated left ventricle with moderate concentric hypertrophy. Inferobasal hypokinesia with remaining preserved segmental contractility. LVEF 61%. Mitral filling flow with impaired relaxation pattern. Trivalve aortic valve without significant valvulopathy. Aortic root and ascending aorta not dilated. Normal appearing mitral valve without significant valvulopathy. Right chambers not dilated, right ventricular function preserved. No tricuspid insufficiency (TI) to estimate pulmonary artery systolic pressure. No pericardial effusion. Cardiac catheterisation: severe stenosis of 65% of the distal left main coronary artery (LMCA), 70% stenosis of the proximal anterior descending (LAD), 90% stenosis in the middle segment of the circumflex (Cx), 100% occlusion of the proximal segment. Post admission blood tests: normal haemogram. Renal function with glomerular filtration rate 90 ml/min, normal ions, urea 29 mg/dl. Lipid profile with total cholesterol 115 mg/dl, HDL cholesterol 52 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol 33 mg/dl, triglycerides 150 mg/dl, lipoprotein (a) 4.5 mg/dl. Glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) 6.4%. GPT 18 IU/l, GGT 38 IU/l.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Scheduled coronary angiography was performed, documenting significant LMCA disease and three-vessel disease. Given the multivessel coronary involvement, the patient's age and DM2, the option of surgical treatment was recommended. Cardiac surgery was consulted and accepted the case and the patient was scheduled for revascularisation surgery during admission. Myocardial revascularisation surgery was performed with quadruple aortocoronary bypass (proximal internal mammary artery - proximal LAD, posterior descending saphenous, marginal saphenous-obtuse, saphenous-1odiagonal) without incident and with good evolution during the postoperative period. During admission and on discharge after the operation, the analytical parameters were analysed, highlighting poor metabolic control with HbA1c figures of 8.3% and a lipid profile outside target figures according to her cardiovascular risk level. Therefore, in accordance with current recommendations on the management of patients at high cardiovascular risk, it was decided to optimise treatment with high-potency statins (rosuvastatin 20 mg) plus ezetimibe 10 mg and to add arGLP1 to the oral antidiabetic treatment as a weekly injectable semaglutide, given its proven cardiovascular and metabolic benefits. The initial dose of semaglutide 0.25 mg subcutaneous weekly is started and will be titrated in consultations according to tolerance.

On discharge, the patient is reminded of the importance of smoking cessation and lifestyle changes. The patient was reviewed in consultations 4 months after admission, the clinical evolution was favourable, with no new episodes of chest pain and progressive recovery of his normal life after the operation. The patient reports that he has lost nearly 10 kg but continues to smoke. The control laboratory tests show LDL-cholesterol figures of 33 mg/dl and HbA1c levels of 6.4%, as well as an improvement in the liver profile and normalisation of uric acid parameters. His primary care physician has titrated subcutaneous doses of semaglutide, and he is currently on a maintenance dose (1 mg sc per week), and the patient does not report any intolerance to the drug and only highlights the increased feeling of satiety that has helped him to lose weight. It was decided to refer the patient to the smoking cessation centre at his health centre. At subsequent check-ups, the patient remained asymptomatic, had stopped smoking after starting treatment with varenicline (Champix©), continued analytical control with target figures in secondary prevention and no new hospital admissions.


DIAGNOSIS
Chronic ischaemic heart disease. Progressive angina with multivessel coronary disease. Surgical revascularisation by quadruple coronary artery bypass grafting.
Poorly controlled familial combined dyslipidaemia.
Poorly controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus.
