HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
We present the case of a 4-year-old female patient, under follow-up by her paediatrician, who was found to have a systolic murmur at the last check-up. She had no relevant history (normal vaginal delivery) and no incidents in previous examinations. The parents were asked about unusual signs/symptoms in recent months. Although there was no limitation in terms of exercise ("she plays in the park with the other children"), in the last few months they noticed that she was more tired. They also report that "when she runs she sometimes stops because of coughing fits". No sweating and/or noticeable tachypnoea in the context of meals. Adequate nutrition, with a good natural weight curve. Good night's rest. No dizziness or loss of consciousness. No complaints of chest pain. Inquiries were made about a history of heart disease in the family, which the parents denied.
At the consultation, the child was in an acceptable general state. Skin and mucous membranes were well coloured, weight and height P75.
Weight and height in P75. Blood pressure 90/60 mmHg, with no differences between members of the family. Saturation of 100% without oxygen therapy. On auscultation, systolic murmur III/VI predominantly in mitral focus with irradiation to the axilla. No crackles or other noises added to the pulmonary auscultation. Abdomen soft and depressible, without hepatomegaly or hepatalgia. Lower limbs with good distal perfusion and preserved and symmetrical pulses.
The patient was referred to the local cardiology department.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests: renal function preserved (creatinine 0.6 mg/dl) with ions in range. Liver profile without alterations. NT-proBNP 600 pg/l. CBC 98. Haemogram anodyne, with white and red series and platelets in range. Coagulation without findings.
Chest X-ray: increased cardiothoracic index. SCF free. No condensation or any other noticeable congestion.
Electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 100 bpm. Normal axis. Normal PR. Narrow QRS with anterolateral Q wave. ST elevation in precordial leads.
Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE): situs solitus. Atrioventricular (AV) concordance.
Normal venous drainage. Inferior vena cava (IVC) not dilated with adequate respiratory variations. No effusion. Dilated left atrium (LA). Dilated left ventricle (LV) with systolic function at lower limits (LVEF by Simpson and Teich of 50%).
Moderate-severe mitral insufficiency (MI) with anterior leaflet prolapse. Hyperechogenic anterior subvalvular apparatus, suggestive of fibrosis. Trivalve aortic valve with good opening and no aortic insufficiency (AIo). The large vessel view shows dilatation of the ostium of the right coronary artery (RCA), with a proximal course of the artery of good calibre. The LMCA ostium is absent, with proximal fine calibre/hypoplastic anterior descending artery (ADA) and circumflex artery (ACx). Retrograde flow in left branches by colour Doppler. No communication with the pulmonary artery is visualised. Right ventricle (RV) not dilated with preserved systolic function. Trivial tricuspid insufficiency (TI) jet with no entity gradient to estimate pulmonary pressures.
Angiographic study: procedure performed under general anaesthesia. Right femoral access. Contrast injection is performed and anterograde filling of the RCA is observed, which is dominant. The left coronary tree is not filled at first. Late and retrograde filling of the left tree, from collateral branches provided by the right tree.
ACx and ADA converge proximally in a blind cul-de-sac, with no connection to the IVC, which is absent. Conclusion: diagnosis of congenital atresia of the LMCA.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient was assessed in cardiology, where the anamnesis was similar to that carried out in her health centre. An ECG was initially performed which was clearly pathological (see complementary tests). Transthoracic echocardiography showed, as the most significant finding, mitral regurgitation of entity by colour Doppler. The fibrosis of the subvalvular apparatus is striking. The left ventricle is dilated but systolic function is preserved. A search for the origin of the coronary arteries was performed in the ECP (large vessel plane), and the origin of the dilated RCA was found, without visualising the origin of the LMCA. Given these findings, the patient was referred to a tertiary referral hospital.
Aortography was scheduled by the haemodynamics team and the procedure was performed under general anaesthesia. On injecting the contrast agent, the ACD was found to be filled in an anterograde manner, with an initial absence of filling of the left aortic tree. Late retrograde filling of left branches from the RCA, which provides collateral circulation.
Poor tolerance to the procedure, with arterial hypotension and bradycardia requiring vasoactive/inothropic support. Urgent echocardiography showed acute left ventricular dysfunction, requiring mechanical circulatory support. Haemodynamic and echocardiographic improvement in the first 30 minutes, with subsequent transfer to the intensive care unit (ICU) for close monitoring and stabilisation.
The patient remained in the ICU for 15 days with progressive clinical improvement. After stabilisation, the patient was proposed and accepted for revascularisation surgery. A coronary CT scan was requested beforehand for better pre-surgical characterisation of the anatomy.

DIAGNOSIS
Congenital atresia of the left main coronary artery.
Severe ischaemic mitral regurgitation in this context.
