HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
A 31-year-old woman with no past history of interest consulted for occasional palpitations and syncope related to physical and emotional stress that had started 5 months earlier. She had a family history of infarction in a paternal grandfather (88 years old) and vasovagal syncope in a brother (25 years old). On first examination, the patient was normotensive and afebrile, well perfused, eupneic at rest and with good skin and mucous membrane colouring. Carotid pulses were rhythmic and symmetrical and there was no jugular engorgement. Cardiopulmonary auscultation showed rhythmic tones and no murmurs with preserved vesicular murmur.
There was no pain on superficial or deep abdominal palpation, no masses or megaliths and hydroaerial sounds were present. Pedial and posterior tibial pulses were present and symmetrical and there was no malleolar oedema or stigmata of venous insufficiency or deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests were unremarkable and the chest X-ray showed a normal cardiac silhouette, with no alterations in the bronchovascular pattern or alveolar or interstitial infiltrates and free costodiaphragmatic angles. The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at 54 bpm, axis at 60o, PR 124 msec, narrow QRS, without ST-segment or T-wave abnormalities. An urgent transthoracic echocardiogram showed a non-dilated and non-hypertrophied left ventricle, no gross alterations of segmental contractility, preserved ejection fraction (62%) and no pericardial effusion. A 24-hour Holter electrocardiogram showed frequent bouts of non-sustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia of helical morphology and high-density ventricular extrasystoles of various morphologies, the most frequent being complete left bundle branch block with inferior axis, with frequent R-over-T phenomena.

EVOLUTION
In view of these findings, the patient was admitted to the Cardiology Department. The determination of metanephrines and vanillylmandelic acid in 24-hour urine was normal. During her stay she remained with telemetry, presenting occasional ventricular extrasystoles, some couple and very occasional triplets, without more complex forms. A transthoracic echocardiogram with contrast showed areas of non-compaction in the postero-lateral mid-apical region (ratio compacted/non-compacted myocardium 1.5 in end-systole and 2.2 in end-diastole), with Doppler flow between the intertrabecular recesses.
On the other hand, simple ergometry was performed without beta-blockers, which was conclusive, clinically and electrically negative for ischaemia, although showing frequent ventricular extrasystoles of different morphology from the second Bruce stage onwards, which joined in pairs from the third stage onwards, and bouts of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia from the fourth stage onwards. Beta-blocker therapy was started, with good tolerance, and a second ergometry performed 48 hours later showed a marked improvement of arrhythmias with extrasystoles and isolated triplets at high load. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging was also performed, which confirmed areas of non-compaction in anterior and lateral mid-apical regions, with a ratio between non-compacted/compacted myocardium of 3.75 and 4.5 respectively, with no enhancement in the late uptake sequence or hyperintensity in the pT2 sequences with fat suppression and preserved LVEF (68%).
The genetic study revealed that the patient carried the variant 1:237947553 G/A in heterozygosis of the RyR2 gene, a missense mutation that causes an amino acid substitution of glycine for arginine (Gly4181Arg), not previously described as pathogenic for catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (non-conclusive result) or non-compaction cardiomyopathy. The patient evolved well and three months later is asymptomatic with no evidence of recurrence.

DIAGNOSIS
Polymorphic non-sustained catecholaminergic ventricular tachycardia with inconclusive genetic study.
Non-compacted left ventricle.
