HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
57-year-old woman, active smoker of 10 cigarettes a day with a history of overweight, dyslipidaemia under treatment with statins and ezetimibe, hypothyroidism with replacement therapy and generalised anxiety disorder under follow-up by the mental health unit. She was referred for stress echocardiography with dobutamine because she presented functional class II/IV of the New York Heart Association and moderate effort angina with submaximal ergometry due to weakness in the lower limbs. On physical examination, the patient was in good general condition with auscultation of rhythmic heart tones without murmurs or other findings of interest. The stress test was started. The baseline electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm, pr 200 msec, narrow QRS, without repolarisation alterations. The baseline transthoracic echocardiogram showed good global and segmental left ventricular function, with normal wall thickness, no significant valvular heart disease and normal pulmonary artery pressure. During stress echocardiography with maximum dose of dobutamine (40 mcg/kg/min), a paradoxically negative chronotropic response was observed, reaching a bradycardia of 36 bpm.
After administration of 0.5 mg atropine, the patient presented chest pain, with ST-segment depression in inferior leads and from V3 to V6 up to 3 mm with ST-segment elevation in AVR and V1-V2 , I and aVL , and moderate left ventricular dysfunction with hypokinesia of the basal segments and LV apical hypercontractility. After administering solinitrine and intravenous metoprolol, the persistence of chest pain and electrocardiographic alterations continued, so an urgent coronary angiography was performed, which showed normal epicardial coronary arteries, without lesions susceptible to revascularisation, with no evidence of coronary vasospasm. Ventriculography showed apical hypercontractility with hypokinesia of basal segments.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Basal electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm, normal pr, left inferior axis, narrow QRS, without repolarisation alterations. Baseline transthoracic echocardiogram: preserved LVEF with no alterations in segmental contractility, no LV dilatation or hypertrophy, no significant valvular heart disease and normal pulmonary artery pressure. Stress echocardiography: Maximum dose of dobutamine is reached with paradoxically negative chronotropic response. After administration of atropine the patient presented chest pain, with electrocardiographic changes. Moderate left ventricular dysfunction with hypokinesia of the basal segments and LV apical hypercontractility. Catheterisation: coronary arteries without lesions susceptible to revascularisation. Ventriculography: apical hypercontractility, hypokinesia of basal segments.

EVOLUTION
After cardiac catheterisation, the electrocardiogram evolved to progressive normalisation, the patient remained asymptomatic and a maximum peak troponin level of 1.7 ng/ml (normal value: 0.00-0.16 ng/ml) and a creatine kinase MB mass of 31.79 ng/ml (normal value: 0.00-5.10 ng/ml) was reached.
Once on the ward, the dose of beta-blockers was increased with good tolerance and progressive improvement in left ventricular function, and she was discharged one week after admission with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 60% according to Simpson and no segmental alterations in contractility.

DIAGNOSIS
Reverse Tako-tsubo during dobutamine stress echocardiography.
