HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
Independent for ADLs. Lives with daughter. No known drug allergies. Denies toxic habits. She has a history of years of arterial hypertension and dyslipidaemia Diabetes mellitus type 2 in treatment with oral antidiabetics. Hypothyroidism on hormone replacement therapy. Ischaemic stroke (2015) in the left MCA territory, of atherothrombotic aetiology, the only sequelae being deviation of the oral commissure. The family reports a benign brain tumour (possible meningioma). Left optic nerve atrophy with secondary decrease in visual acuity

Cardiological history: chronic ischaemic heart disease starting with angina in 2003, with TC and 3-vessel disease. In 2005, double coronary artery bypass from internal mammary artery (IMA) to anterior descending (AD) and from saphenous vein (SV) to right coronary artery (RCA) was performed in another centre. Subsequently new episodes of angina, with coronary angiography (2008): distal coronary trunk (TCd) 75% including ostium of DA and circumflex (CF) (90% in all these lesions), CDp CTO, AMI-DA 100% and VS-DP permeable. PCI was not performed. In 2013, she presented an episode of unstable angina and was studied at the centre where she had undergone surgery, and echocardiography was performed with preserved LVEF and infero-basal akinesia, and coronary angiography was repeated (2013): severe lesion in distal TC and DAp, chronic underocclusion in proximal CF, chronic complete occlusion in proximal CD; occluded AMI-DA graft and patent VS-DP without stenosis. It was considered a bad case for percutaneous revascularisation, opting for medical treatment, as it seems that she has had few symptoms from the cardiological point of view for several years.  Usual medication: ASA 100 mg 1-0-0, atenolol 25 1-0-0, oral nitrates (40 mg) 1-1-1, metformin 850 mg 0-1-0, levothyroxine 75 mcg 1-0-0, atorvastatin 80 mg 0-0-1, enalapril 20 mg 1-0-0.

CURRENT ILLNESS
Since 17/04/17 he has had episodes of palpitations, accompanied by oppressive central thoracic pain with irradiation to both upper extremities, without vegetatism, which subside with rest. She has presented daily episodes of chest pain of the same characteristics, some related to small efforts and others at rest, self-limited and of variable duration (up to 2 hours), which remind her of the episodes of angina with which her coronary disease debuted in 2003. On 21/04/17, when she woke up at 9 am, she had another episode of similar pain lasting about 30 minutes, so she consulted the Accident and Emergency department of the corresponding regional hospital. On arrival, the patient was asymptomatic and haemodynamically stable. An ECG was performed with evidence of AF at 69 bpm (not described in previous reports), with unknown LBBB (not described in the 2015 medical report). Troponin I was measured at 1.4 ng/ml (limit of significance 0.04 ng/ml). A 300 mg ASA and 300 mg clopidogrel and 40 mg enoxaparin were administered, and the patient was referred to our centre for admission to the Coronary Unit.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests at the regional hospital: creatinine 1.06 mg/dl. CK 110U/L. Sodium 139 mEq/L, potassium 4.8 mEq/L. Chlorine 108 mEq/L. Glucose 178 mg/dl. Lactate 1.82 mmol/L. GSV pH 7.28, pCO2 43 mmHg. Bicarbonate 25.8 mmol/L. INR 1.18, TTPAr 30.2s. Hb 11.4 g/dl, Htc 35.6%. Leukocytes 5,680, platelets 163,000. Troponin I: 1.42 - 1.948 (peak)- 1.3 ng/ml. Cardiological profile: Gluc 88 mg/dl. Urea 43 mg/dl. Creatinine 0,79 mg/dl. Cholesterol 119 mg/dl. HDL 36 mg/dl. LDL 64 mg/dl. TG 89 mg/dl. GOT 209 U/L. GPT 211 U/L. GGT 180 U/L. FAlc 134 U/l. Na 143 mEq/l. K 4.2 mEq/l. Hb 11.3 g/dl. Ht 3 7.2 %, MCV 87. Platelets 146,000. TSH 0 m42 uU/ml, free T4 1.26 ng/dl. HbA1c 8.2 % Control laboratory tests 8 weeks after discharge: HbA1c 7.1 %, GOT 112, GPT 71, GGT 91U/L, FAlc 96. ECG on admission: atrial fibrillation with FVM of 72 bpm, LBBB. Control ECG: sinus rhythm 50 bpm, LBBB, frequent atrial extrasystoles. ECG at discharge: RS at 57 bpm, LBBB. Chest X-ray: silhouette at high limit of normality. Sternotomy sutures. Normal lung fields. Coronary angiography: severe lesion at the level of the distal common trunk. It is a trifurcated trunk (DA-Biscitrus-CX). LAD with significant lesions in the middle third. Distal vessel of small calibre. Significant lesion at the level of the middle-distal third of the bisector branch. Small calibre distal vessel. CX with severe lesion at the level of the proximal third. Critical lesion at the level of the CX-1st OM bifurcation. Small calibre distal vessel. Dominant DC with chronic occlusion at the level of the proximal third. Distal vessel visible from saphenous graft to posterior descending artery. Saphenous graft to posterior descending without significant lesions. No cannulation of mammary graft to LAD (occluded according to previous reports). Echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle, moderate septal hypertrophy, preserved systolic function (EF Simpson 4C 53 %) with akinesia and thinning of mid and basal segments of inferior and inferoseptal face, without other evident alterations of segmental wall contractility. Pseudonormal diastolic pattern. Right ventricle of normal size, preserved function. Left atrium slightly dilated. Normal aortic diameters. Trivalve aortic valve, with thickening and calcification of the base of all leaflets, predominantly the non-coronary leaflet with preserved opening, mild insufficiency. Mitral valve with slightly thickened leaflets, preserved opening, mild central regurgitation (EROA 0.04 cm2, RV 8 ml). Tricuspid valve with mild insufficiency allowing estimation of PSAP of at least 26 mmHg. Non-dilated inferior vena cava with inspiratory collapse > 50%. No pericardial effusion. No intracardiac masses are evident.

EVOLUTION
On arrival, she remained asymptomatic. Echoscopy was performed with preserved LVEF. Akinesia of the basal segments of the inferior and inferolateral face and severe hypokinesia of the middle segments of the inferior and inferolateral face. RV with normal morphology and contractility. No significant valvulopathy or pericardial effusion. ECG on admission in AF with controlled FVM, reverting to RS spontaneously at the time of admission. We maintain double antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation (for NSTEACS and paroxysmal AF in patient with CHA2DS2-VASc 8). Tendency to bradycardia, so beta-blockers were suspended and restarted on 24/4 at low doses. ECG persists with LBBB and supraventricular extrasystoles. Peak troponin I 1.9 ng/ml. Tolerates sitting. After reviewing the last coronary angiography, and given the abruptness of the clinical picture with high suspicion of VS bypass lesion/occlusion, it was decided to perform coronary angiography directly without prior ischaemia detection test, which showed similar findings to those found (according to the report from the hospital where the revascularisation surgery was performed) in the study performed in 2013. Haematoma in relation to the radial puncture that is resolved by prolonging the compressive bandage given the clinical stability is discharged to the ward. On the ward it was considered that the infarction could be related to episodes of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, so amiodarone was added and beta-blockers were adjusted. It was decided to optimise medical treatment. An ordinary analysis revealed elevated transaminases, already present in previous analyses, probably related to high doses of statins, so atorvastatin was replaced by pitavastatin. The patient was switched to pitavastatin 4 mg to assess liver enzyme control on an outpatient basis. HbA1c 8.2 % was also noted, so it was decided to start empaglifazone on discharge. Given the history of a possible meningioma and the haematoma of the right arm, it was decided not to start anticoagulation and to assess its initiation on an outpatient basis. She remained stable, with no new episodes of chest pain. She began to ambulate with good tolerance and was discharged from hospital. The patient was seen 8 weeks after hospital discharge and presented CF II, with no new episodes of angina since she had been at home and with a glycated haemoglobin of 7.1%, as well as an improvement in her liver profile.

DIAGNOSIS
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction, type 2. Chronic ischaemic heart disease. Coronary artery disease of LMCA and 3 vessels. Carrier of double bypass AMI-DA (occluded) and VS-DP (patent). Ischaemic heart disease with preserved ventricular function. History of ischaemic stroke. Arterial hypertension. Dyslipidaemia. Diabetes mellitus type 2 Hypothyroidism.
