HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
57-year-old male with a personal history of arterial hypertension (AHT), no other known cardiovascular risk factors and Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome (WPW) with no invasive treatment to date. On treatment only with atenolol 100 mg per day.
On waking up on the morning of admission at 8:00 a.m., he felt dizzy and unstable and fell to the floor. He was rushed to the emergency department for assessment.
Haemodynamic stability was observed, with elevated blood pressure 190/117 mmHg, heart rate 59 bpm, afebrile state and baseline oxygen saturation of 92%. The neurological examination showed a NIHSS 7: dysarthric speech, left central facial paresis, striking horizontal-rotatory nystagmus with rapid leftward movement, claudication of the lower limbs and mild hypoaesthesia of algesic predominance in the right hemibody including the face.
The rest of the physical examination showed cardiac auscultation without murmurs or extratonos and respiratory auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur without added noises.
An electrocardiogram in sinus rhythm was requested, and blood tests showed platelets and normal coagulation, with only an elevated D-dimer. An emergency multimodal computed tomography (CT) scan (without perfusion) was performed, showing occlusion of the left vertebral artery along segment V3-4, compatible with acute thrombus, as well as chronic ischaemic lesions in the basal ganglia, left thalamus and cerebellar hemispheres.

Given the acute nature of the picture, the clear neurological deficit, the evidence of thrombus, a good baseline situation assessed on the Ratkin Scale and the absence of contraindications for the same, a pharmacoinvasive strategy was decided, so r-TPA was administered and the patient was transferred to the referral hospital for clinical monitoring in the Stroke Unit due to the possibility of progression to the basilar artery and the need for surgical treatment.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Baseline electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 78 bpm, short PR with initial QRS flattening compatible with a delta wave, repolarisation disturbance consisting of non-significant ST segment underleveling in left precordial leads and lateral face with negative T wave, probably secondary to WPW.
ED CBC: leukocytes 8,500/μl, segmented 45.4% (3,800/μ)l, lymphocytes 40.3% (3,400/μl), red blood cells 5.790 million/μl, haemoglobin 15.1 g/dl, haematocrit 47.5%, MCV 82 fl, platelets 163 thousands/μl, prothrombin time 11.4 seconds, prothrombin activity 94%, aTTP 28.2 seconds, fibrinogen 484 mg/dl, urgent D-dimer 2,099 ng/ml, INR 1.04, serum glucose 109 mg/dl, urea 26 mg/dl, creatinine 0.88 mg/dl.
Urgent cranial CT and perfusion CT: subcortical hypodensity of about 5 mm in the right cerebellar hemisphere suggestive of chronic ischaemic lesion. Hypodensities in the anterior arm of the internal capsule, in the lenticular nucleus and in the thalamic region of the left hemisphere, with attenuation similar to CSF, suggestive of chronic lacunar infarcts. Fourth ventricle of normal size and morphology, centred in the midline. Basal cisterns free and symmetrical. No densitometric alterations were observed in the brainstem. No intra- or extra-axial bleeding or midline deviation. Hyperdensity of the V4 segment of the left vertebral artery in probable relation to acute thrombus. The perfusion study is not valid in the study performed to assess the vertebrobasilar axis. Retention cysts in maxillary and left sphenoidal sinuses.
Angio-CT of TSA and urgent cerebral arteries: carotid axes of normal morphology and paths up to the bifurcation, with non-obstructive flat calcified atheroma plaque at the origin of the left internal carotid artery. Both internal carotid arteries are patent and of normal calibre. Right vertebral artery patent up to the basilar trunk. Repletion defect along V3 and V4 of the left vertebral artery, compatible with acute thrombus. No associated collaterals were seen in this segment. Intracranially, the vascular structures of the polygon of Willis are permeable and of normal calibre with no repletion defects or aneurysms. Conclusion: findings compatible with acute thrombus in V3 and V4 of the left vertebral artery. Chronic ischaemic lesions in the left basal ganglia and thalamus and in the right cerebellar hemisphere.
Routine laboratory tests on the neurology ward: glucose 111 mg/dl. Urea 20 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.69 mg/dl. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (CKD-EPI) > 90 ml/min/1.73 m . Uric acid 3.2 mg/dl. Sodium 140.4 mEq/l. Potassium 3,71 mEq/l. Chlorine 104,4 mEq/l. Calcium 9 mg/dl. Phosphorus 2,6 mg/dl. Total proteins 6,85 g/dl. Albumin 4.1 g/dl. Cholesterol 205 mg/dl. HDL cholesterol 55 mg/dl. Calculated LDL cholesterol 117 mg/dl. Triglycerides 166 mg/dl. GOT(AST) 17 U/l. GPT(ALT) 16 U/l. GGT 21 U/l. Total bilirubin 0.5 mg/dl. Alkaline phosphatase 38 U/l. Glycosylated haemoglobin 5.7%.
Thrombophilia study: normal results. Antithrombin III 84%, protein C 145%, resistance to activated protein C 3.1, antigenic free protein S 108%, prothrombin factor 20210 A gene negative, momocysteine 8 MicroMol/l.
Chest CT with VSD (PET protocol): multiple entral repletion defects are observed at the level of: lobar artery for LID with extension to segmental and subsegmental branches, segmental arteries for LM, LSD and LII, some with extension to subsegmental branches. Findings in relation to bilateral acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE). Increased calibre of the pulmonary artery trunk (35 mm) and its main branches (APD of 25 mm, API of 25 mm), in relation to PTE. No signs suggestive of right heart cavity overload. No pericardial effusion is observed. No significant supraclavicular, axillary, mediastinal or hilar lymphadenopathy. Accessory fissure of the azygos as an anatomical variant of normality. Laminar bibasal atelectasis. Small calcified granuloma in LSD. Rest of the lung parenchyma without pathological findings. No pleural effusion. Mild dorsal spondyloarthrosis. Hiatal hernia. Diagnostic impression: findings compatible with bilateral acute PTE and PHT.
Post-fibrinolysis control CT scan: evolving ischaemic lesion in the left cerebellar hemisphere in the territory of the PICA. No signs suggesting haemorrhagic transformation.
Echo Doppler of the lower extremities: no evidence of DVT.
Transthoracic echocardiogram performed in the stroke unit: non-dilated left ventricle, mild septal hypertrophy with preserved systolic function (LVEF 60%) without alterations in segmental contractility. Right ventricle not dilated, normofunctioning (TAPSE 24 mm, S wave 0.21m/s). Diastolic flattening of the IVS suggestive of volume overload in the right chambers; no other signs suggestive of right chamber involvement. Degenerative aortic valve disease resulting in mild aortic insufficiency (VC 3 mm). Mitral filling pattern not assessable by wave fusion. Mild tricuspid insufficiency allowing estimation of PSAP 33 mmHg. Absence of pericardial effusion. IVC at the upper limit of normality with respirophasic variations in its calibre. Aneurysm of the interatrial septum with redundant movement, without intracavitary claroshunt. It is recommended to complete the study with bubble echocardiogram to rule out shunt from right to left cavities.
Transthoracic echocardiogram with bubbles: very positive bubble test, with passage of abundant bubbles (> 30) in first beats without Valsalva.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: a study was performed to assess the interatrial septum due to stroke, PTE and positive bubble test. The presence of PFO of the tunneled type with significant passage of bubbles to the left cavities at baseline was confirmed. The edges of the septum secundum are thick, 18 mm long inferiorly and 26 mm posteriorly, the distance between the two edges being about 25 mm. Left atrial appendage without thrombus and with normal flow. Conclusions: patent foramen ovale tunnel type.
Electrophysiological study: baseline findings: HV 0 ms. Concentric and decremental retrograde conduction (therefore absence of retrograde conduction through the pathway) 1:1 up to 400 ms. Preexcitation with 1:1 accessory pathway conduction only up to 560 ms. Anterograde PW 450 ms, PRENAV 600/350 ms. An area with AV continuity and ventriculogram with precocity with respect to the onset of delta is identified. Anterograde conduction via the accessory pathway is transiently interrupted very easily in relation to the manipulation of the catheter in the area. A 35 W RF application is performed, with interruption of the pre-excitation at the start of the application. A total of 7 applications are performed, with a total RF time of 154 ms. After the waiting period, the absence of bidirectional conduction in the pathway was verified. Complete atrial and ventricular pacing protocols were repeated after the ablation, confirming 1:1 concentric and decremental VA conduction up to 380 ms, a PW of 133 bpm, with an anterograde nodal curve without AH jump and without inducing echoes or tachycardia. After the wait, two additional safety applications were performed with the same parameters (duration 58 s). A subcutaneous Holter was implanted in the left parasternal position.

Post-ablation ECG: sinus rhythm at 68 bpm. No signs of pre-excitation. No alteration in repolarisation or intraventricular conduction.
Percutaneous closure of PFO: a 30 mm cribriform closure device was implanted. By means of the depush and pull manoeuvre and angiography, its correct position is verified.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During his stay in the stroke unit, haemodynamic support, cardiorespiratory monitoring and strict control of cardiovascular risk factors were carried out. On arrival on the ward, a blood test was drawn with a coagulation study that included a D-dimer determination, as the first determination carried out in the emergency department was elevated, the new result being even higher. For this reason, together with the presence of slight dyspnoea, it was decided to rule out pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE). After an angio-CT scan of the pulmonary arteries revealed the existence of acute bilateral PTE, a control cranial CT scan was performed to rule out haemorrhagic transformation after fibrinolysis. Therefore, after a risk-benefit assessment, it was decided to start anticoagulation with IV sodium heparin, with subsequent transition to LMWH.
A Doppler ultrasound of the lower limbs was performed, which ruled out the existence of deep vein thrombosis, and a transthoracic echocardiogram ruled out right ventricular dysfunction but revealed the existence of an aneurysm of the interatrial septum, which was studied by means of a bubble echocardiogram and a transesophageal echocardiogram, revealing the existence of a PFO, unknown until then.
The most likely cause of the stroke + PTE was considered to be paradoxical embolism due to PFO in a patient with WPW and possible associated arrhythmia (the most plausible being atrial fibrillation associated with WPW). It was then decided to study and ablate the accessory pathway, implanting a subcutaneous Holter at the same time to study subsequent arrhythmias, whether unrelated to WPW syndrome or due to recurrence.
The evolution from the neurological point of view was very favourable, with practically complete resolution of the clinical manifestations, although instability persisted, so it was decided to discharge the patient.
In a second stage, after one month, percutaneous closure of the tunneled PFO is performed, given that it has anatomical risk criteria.
After this last intervention, the patient is recommended hygienic-dietary measures, gradually introducing light physical activity, as well as a varied diet, without excess salt, and with sugar control given his pre-diabetes stage. Endocarditis prophylaxis for the next 6 months, if invasive dental procedures are performed. Regarding medication: rivaroxaban 20 mg/24 hours, clopidogrel 75 mg/24 hours for 6 months, candersartan/hydrochlorothiazide 16/12.5 mg/24 hours, atorvastatin 80 mg/24 hours. Regarding the maintenance of anticoagulation, a new control angio-CT scan could be considered to rule out thrombotic remnants of the PTE and in that case its withdrawal could be considered, also subject to the possible detection of atrial fibrillation with the subcutaneous Holter.

DIAGNOSIS
Acute ischaemic stroke in vertebrobasilar territory, acute occlusion segment V3-4 of the left vertebral artery with involvement of the ipsilateral posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) and bilateral acute pulmonary thromboembolism on admission with fibrinolysis. Permeable tunnelled foramen ovale closed percutaneously.
WPW accessory pathway ablation.
