HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
No known drug allergies.
Marfan's syndrome. Subluxation of the crystalline lens. Dural ectasia. Family history of Marfan syndrome in father and paternal grandfather. In 2006, she underwent surgery for dilatation of the ascending aorta with involvement of the sinuses of Valsalva using the David technique, with preservation of the native aortic valve.
Hyperparathyroidism secondary to vitamin D deficiency. Hypercalciuria. Osteopenia.
One term delivery (vaginal delivery with vacuum extraction) in 2011.
Usual treatment: currently on treatment with ASA 100 mg and labetalol (atenolol had been substituted for labetalol during the previous pregnancy).


Present illness
Patient aged 36 years, 10 weeks pregnant and operated 10 years ago for aortic root aneurysm, referred to an outpatient cardiologist for advice and risk assessment.

Physical examination
BP 109/73 mmHg; HR 90 bpm.
Conscious and oriented. Well hydrated and perfused, with good skin and mucous membrane colouring. Eupneic. Marfanoid habitus.
Head and neck: no jugular ingurgitation. No nuchal rigidity or meningeal signs.
No carotid murmurs.
Chest: mid thoracotomy scar. Rhythmic cardiac auscultation with no murmurs.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur.
Abdomen: globular, soft and depressible, without pain on palpation or peritonism.
No masses or visceromegaly were palpable. No murmurs were heard
Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.
Peripheral pulses were preserved.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Echocardiogram: native aortic valve with three thin leaflets with normal opening and no functional alteration. A rigid structure is identified above the valvular plane with a 2D internal diameter of 35 mm. Aortic sagging visualised in the suprasternal recess, 30 mm. Discrete image of mild anterior leaflet prolapse without fulfilling strict criteria, with trivial MR. Left ventricle neither dilated nor hypertrophic, with good global systolic function and no alterations in segmental contractility. Type I diastolic pattern. Non-dilated right chambers with mild TR and systolic gradient of 12 mmHg. Pulmonary normotension.
MRI: mild dilatation of descending thoracic aorta and right common iliac aorta, in a stable situation.

EVOLUTION
The patient was referred to the Genetics Department, where she was informed of a 50% probability of transmission, as well as the phenotypic variability and the availability of a prenatal diagnostic test. A molecular study was performed, which was found to be normal, so prenatal diagnosis was not possible in her case.
In conjunction with cardiac surgery, discontinuation of ASA and treatment with labetalol 50 mg was recommended.
The patient is being monitored by a High Risk Pregnancy Unit.

DIAGNOSIS
Pregnant woman with Marfan syndrome with dilatation of the ascending aorta.
