HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
This is a 37-year-old female patient, with no family or personal history of interest, except for smoking (pack-year index: 15), which was her only known cardiovascular risk factor.
He had been under cardiology consultation for 20 years due to palpitations. These symptoms corresponded to frequent monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles with an extrasystolic load of up to 20% and non-sustained ventricular tachycardias of up to 8-10 complexes, without echocardiographic or cardiac MRI evidence of structural heart disease, gadolinium enhancement or deterioration of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). He had recently undergone a coronary CT scan with a calcium score of 0 points and coronary artery disease was ruled out by non-invasive coronary angiography. During this period, several attempts were made to initiate antiarrhythmic treatment (beta-blockers, calcium antagonists, amiodarone and flecainide), which he was unable to tolerate due to marked asthenia, dizziness and hypotension.
Since the summer of 2019, she has presented clinical deterioration that she refers to as increased palpitations, mainly on exertion and limitation of physical activity, without associated chest pain and without a clear increase in functional class, orthopnoea or oedematisation of the lower limbs. He has never presented with syncopal or presyncopal symptoms.

At the first consultation (September 2019), a new attempt was made to start beta-blockers at low doses (nebivolol 1.25 mg/24 h) and she was assessed again in consultation 3 weeks after starting treatment with transthoracic echocardiography, ergometry and Holter-ECG.

Physical examination in consultation: good general condition, blood pressure 95/60 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 80 bpm. Baseline SpO2 99%. Afebrile. Head and neck: no jugular venous engorgement. Cardiac auscultation: arrhythmic sounds at 75 bpm without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: normoventilation in all fields Abdomen: nondescript. Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Initial electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 90 bpm, normal PR, narrow QRS, isolated supraventricular extrasystoles. Ventricular extrasystoles with right bundle branch block (RBBB) morphology, inferior axis and V1-V2 transition.
Holter ECG (under treatment with nebivolol 1.25 mg/24 h): sinus rhythm throughout the tracing with adequate heart rates (mean 65, maximum 130 and min 45 bpm). Frequent monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles (extrasystolic load 17.2% (previous load 12%), sometimes grouped in the form of ventricular bigeminy and 2 short bursts of up to 9 complexes (coinciding with the time of physical activity reported by the patient between 13 and 14 h). Very isolated supraventricular extrasystoles. No significant bradycardias or pauses.
Conventional ergometry: Bruce protocol on treadmill: stopped at the beginning of stage 4, at 9 min 34 of exercise due to physical fatigue, reaching 165 bpm (90% of maximum theoretical HR). No clinical signs suggestive of angina. 12.3 METS, good functional capacity for age and sex. No alterations in the ST. Adequate blood pressure behaviour. Monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles throughout the recording, which became more frequent during maximum effort and early recovery by means of ventricular trigeminy. Isolated ventricular doublet without VT. Conclusion: ventricular extrasystoles more frequent during maximal exercise without complex forms. Clinically and electrically negative for ischaemia.

Transthoracic echocardiogram: left atrium not dilated. Normal mitral valve.
Minimal central insufficiency. Normal filling pressures. Left ventricle not dilated (VTDVI 4C 114 cm, VTSVI 4C 44 cm), nor hypertrophied. Biplane LVEF 59.7% without segmental alterations. Trivalve aortic valve, normal flow. Aortic root not dilated. Non dilated right chambers with normal contractility (TAPSE 28). Tricuspid valve with normal flow. No indirect evidence of pulmonary hypertension. No pericardial effusion.

Blood analysis: no alterations, including normal TSH.
Electrophysiological study (images 3-6 and video 2): double right femoral venous puncture. Introduction of a decapolar diagnostic catheter in the coronary sinus and tetrapolar to His-VD. Pacing protocol was performed from the base of the RV at two frequencies and two extras, basal and under isoproterol perfusion without inducing tachycardia, although extras appeared spontaneously. Right femoral arterial puncture and introduction of Orion catheter. The Rhythmia® system was used to map LVOT and aortic sinuses first (surface ECG with ventricular extrasystoles at the BRD and inferior axis, r wave in V1-V2 and V2 transition). Subsequent RVOT mapping. The best precocities (24 ms) are found with respect to QRS onset between the left and right aortic sinus, with fragmented bipolar electrogram and unipolar qs. Pacemapping was performed from the theoretical ablation point, obtaining ventricular complexes that were 98% concordant with the mapped extrasystole. After verifying by electroanatomical integration with previous coronary CT a distance > 6 mm (14 mm) with respect to the LMCA ostium, and absence of proximity to His, radiofrequency ablation was performed (40 W, 48o C) with a gold-tipped irrigated catheter at that point, and the extrasystoles disappeared after the third second of the single application. After 10 min after ablation, the pacing protocol was repeated without the appearance of extrasystoles.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
At the next consultation (October 2019), the patient reported withdrawal of medication due to orthostatism and marked asthenia. The results of the tests requested in the previous consultation highlighted an increase in extrasystolic load in Holter-ECG (17.2%, which was 5% more than in the previous one) with very brief and isolated bouts of ventricular tachycardia (VT), without deterioration of systolic function in echocardiography. Given the evolution of our patient, and in accordance with her preferences, an electrophysiological study was proposed. We explained in detail the suspected left origin of the extrasystoles, probably in the region of the LV outflow tract or aortic cusps, and the risks derived both from the approach and from a possible ablation in this region, which she accepted.
An electrophysiological study (November 2019) revealed the left origin of the extrasystoles, specifically between the left and right aortic cusps. After checking the safety distance with respect to His and aostium of the coronary arteries, radiofrequency was applied in this region, which was successful, achieving the disappearance of the arrhythmia.
After verifying the absence of post-procedural complications, the patient was discharged after 24 hours.
Since then, she has visited us twice, reporting a very significant clinical improvement. In the control Holter-ECG only very isolated ventricular extrasystoles were recorded (150 VE in 24 h), so she is not currently receiving any antiarrhythmic treatment.

DIAGNOSIS
Frequent ventricular extrasystoles originating in the left ventricular outflow tract. Electrophysiological study --> successful ablation of the extrasystolic focus.
Absence of structural heart disease.
