HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
No known drug allergies. Lives with her husband. Never smoker. Occasional drinker. No cardiovascular risk factors or previous cardiological history. Other antecedents: varicose veins in lower limbs. No previous surgical intervention. Chronic treatment: oral contraceptive (levonorgestrel 0.1 mg/etinylestradiol 0.02 mg 1 tablet per day).

Present illness
The patient presents with a self-limiting episode of precordial pain at rest. It is attributed to musculoskeletal origin and treated with anti-inflammatory drugs. At 22:15 hours the following day, she presented with a new episode of precordial pain, which did not subside with rest, together with general malaise. Her husband called the emergency services. At that moment, the patient suffered cardiorespiratory arrest (CRA) and her husband started basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). On arrival of the emergency services, a shockable rhythm was detected, which changed to sinus rhythm after 3 shocks at 200 joules. Fifteen minutes of advanced CPR were recorded, with orotracheal intubation and invasive mechanical ventilation. The outgoing electrocardiogram (ECG) showed right bundle branch block without clear ST-segment elevation, so the Infarction Code was not activated. The patient was transferred to the emergency department of our centre.

Physical examination
On arrival at the ED: temperature 36.7°C, blood pressure 90/73 mmHg, heart rate 92 bpm, respiratory rate 16 rpm, oxygen saturation 94%. Sedoanalgesia, connected to invasive mechanical ventilation. Good distal perfusion. Jugular venous pressure normal. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, tachycardic, no murmurs.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur. Lower extremities without oedema. Carotid, radial and femoral pulses present.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC: haemoglobin 12.5 g/dl, MCV 95.9 fl, MCH 30.3 pg C, leukocytes 13,920/μl, platelets 398,000/μl. Biochemistry: glucose 385 mg/dl, urea 27 mg/dl, creatinine 1.25 mg/dl, sodium 139 mmol/l, potassium 2.6 mmol/l, C-reactive protein 0.3 mg/dl. Lipid profile: total cholesterol 165 mg/dl, LDL 94 mg/dl, HDL 33 mg/dl, triglycerides 194 mg/dl, HbA1C 5.4%. TSH 1.22 μIU/ml. Ultrasensitive troponin T (normal < 14 ng/l): serial on admission (on arrival, at 3 hours, at 24 hours, at 36 hours and at discharge): 204 --> 6,032--> 1,954 --> 2,003 --> 1,704 ng/l. Coagulation: INR 0.92. Prothrombin rate 115%. Partial thromboplastin time 28.6 sec. Partial thromboplastin time ratio 0.92. D-dimer 3,349 ng/ml. Arterial blood gas: pH 7.28. pO2 282 mmHg. pCO2 35 mmHg. Bicarbonate 16.9 mmol/l. ECG: post arrest: sinus rhythm, negative T wave in V3-V5. On admission to ICU: sinus rhythm, ST segment elevation from V2 to V4. Angio-CT of pulmonary arteries: no evidence of pulmonary thromboembolism or deep vein thrombosis. Cranial CT scan without contrast: no signs of acute intracranial pathology. Echocardiogram in ICU: moderately affected LVEF (39%) with septoapical and apex akinesia, mid-septal and lateroapical hypokinesia. Doubtful image at apical level (two chambers), which could correspond to thrombus. Mild mitral insufficiency. Coronary angiography: right coronary artery without stenosis. Left main coronary artery without stenosis. Anterior descending artery (AD) with spiroid dissection from the proximal portion and occlusion in the middle segment, TIMI 0 flow. Percutaneous coronary intervention to the LAD: intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation is implanted. After verifying by IVUS the presence of coronary dissection with guidewire in the true lumen, three drug-eluting stents were implanted from the distal LAD to the ostial LAD with final TIMI 3 flow and without complications. Echocardiogram with contrast: 13 x 8 mm mural thrombus in the apex of the left ventricle (LV).

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
A 46-year-old woman was admitted after an out-of-hospital CRA resuscitated by a relative. At the time no infarction code was activated by ECG without clear ST-segment elevation. On arrival at the ED, other possible causes of CRA were ruled out (normal pulmonary CT angiography and cranial CT). Initial emergency echocardioscopy showed no segmental contractility alterations. She was transferred to the ICU, where she was sedated, perfused with low doses of noradrenaline, in sinus rhythm and without respiratory compromise; reactive to verbal stimuli, making coordinated movements with the upper limbs and with reactive pupils. An echocardiogram was performed on admission to the ICU which showed ventricular dysfunction and segmental alterations in contractility in the territory of the LAD artery, so a repeat ECG was performed which showed an elevation of the anterior ST segment. Emergent coronary angiography was performed, showing a spirodial dissection of the proximal LAD with occlusion at the level of the middle LAD and distal TIMI 0 flow, and three drug-eluting stents were implanted with good angiographic results, as well as intra-aortic balloon counterpulsation (IABP). In the ICU, she had a favourable evolution that allowed the amine support and IABP to be withdrawn. She was discharged to the hospital ward. She remained in stable condition with amnesia of recent episodes as an identifiable immediate neurological sequela. She remained with a tendency to arterial hypotension and sinus tachycardia during admission without clinical repercussions, which allowed the initiation of neurohormonal treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) and beta-blockers. Incidentally, in the initial echocardiogram with moderate LV dysfunction, an image suggestive of apical thrombus was observed, which was later confirmed with contrast echocardiography. Electrocardiographically, the patient progressed to established myocardial necrosis with Q wave from V1 to V3. At discharge, triple antithrombotic therapy was maintained with double antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid, clopidogrel and acenocoumarol. Acenocoumarol was withdrawn after 3 months of outpatient follow-up, after resolution of the thrombus.

DIAGNOSIS
Out-of-hospital cardiorespiratory arrest in defibrillable rhythm, resuscitated.
Ischaemic heart disease, ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (STEMI), Q-wave infarction secondary to spiroid dissection of the LAD with mid-segment occlusion.
Percutaneous treatment with implantation of three drug-eluting overlapping stents from distal LAD to ostial LAD.
Moderately affected LVEF in acute phase with mural thrombus in LV apex.
