Young woman who, after excessive cocaine consumption, presented with peripheral embolism and was admitted to our hospital. During hospitalisation, she presented electrocardiographic alterations, elevated markers of myocardial damage and pathological findings on imaging tests that led to the final diagnosis.

HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

FAMILY HISTORY
Absence of family history of heart disease.

PERSONAL HISTORY
No known allergic drug reactions.
No classic cardiovascular risk factors.
Toxic habits: sporadic consumption of alcohol and other toxic substances. Non-smoker.
Coeliac disease.
Previous medication
The patient denies taking chronic home medication.

CURRENT ILLNESS
This is a 35-year-old woman with coeliac disease, with no other family or personal medical history of interest, who attended the emergency department of the Hospital del Tajo with symptoms compatible with acute arterial ischaemia of the right upper limb, and was transferred to our centre for assessment by vascular surgery. An urgent angio-CT scan was performed which revealed proximal occlusion of the right humeral artery with distal repermeabilisation, probably embolic in nature, and incidentally a filling defect in the left ventricle suggestive of intracavitary thrombus. On questioning the patient, she reported consumption of high doses of toxic alpha-agonists (cocaine) in the previous days, although she denied episodes of chest pain or any other cardiovascular symptoms. An urgent echocardiogram was performed, showing severe apical hypokinesia and severe hypokinesia of distal segments of the lateral face and distal septum, with a visual left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 45% and images compatible with two mobile apical thrombi.
Urgent revascularisation surgery with Fogarty probe was successfully performed.
Given the electro- and echocardiographic findings, as well as the elevation of myocardial damage markers, once the humeral artery had been repermeabilised, it was decided to perform urgent coronary angiography, which ruled out the presence of coronary lesions. After this, the patient was transferred to the coronary unit under conditions of respiratory and haemodynamic stability and anticoagulation with sodium heparin was started.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Blood pressure (BP): 90/60 mmHg. Heart rate (HR) 85 bpm. Respiratory frequency (RF) 18 rpm. Temperature 37 ̊C. SpO2 98% basal.
Conscious, oriented in all three spheres and cooperative. Normal colour, normohydrated and normoperfused. Eupneic at rest, with good respiratory dynamics, tolerating decubitus.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds of good intensity. No murmurs or extratonos were heard.
Pulmonary auscultation: vesicular murmur preserved and symmetrical in both hemithoraxes, with no extra sounds.
Abdomen: hydro-aerial sounds present and of normal characteristics. Soft, depressible, not painful on palpation, without masses or organomegaly.
Lower limbs: pedial pulses present and symmetrical. Absence of oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.
Upper limbs: absence of distal pulse in the right upper limb.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Admission ECG: sinus rhythm at 80 bpm. Normal PR. Narrow QRS. Generalised negative T waves. Prolongation of the QTc interval (590 ms).
Angio-CT of the chest and upper limbs: proximal occlusion of the right humeral artery with distal repermeabilisation, of probable embolic origin. Repletion defect in the LV, making it necessary to rule out thrombus. Right pulmonary involvement which, in the clinical context, could also indicate the presence of emboli.
Urgent transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle (LV) not dilated or hypertrophic, severe apical hypokinesia and distal segments of the lateral face and distal septum, LVEF 45%, image compatible with two mobile apical thrombi; the largest measuring at least 25 mm. Non-dilated right ventricle (RV) normocontractile.
Morphologically and functionally normal valves.
Admission blood tests:
Haemogram: red blood cells 4.20 x 1000/μl. Haemoglobin 12.3 g/dl. Haematocrit 37.5%.
MCV 89.2 fl. MCH 29.2 pg. MCHC 32.7 g/dl. RDW 14.6 %. Platelets 153 x 1000/μl.
VPM 9.2 fl. Leukocytes 10.70 x 1000/μl. Neutrophils 5.50 x 1000/μl. Neutrophils % 51.9%. Lymphocytes 3.90 x 1000/μl. Lymphocytes % 36.6%. Monocytes 0.80 x 1000/μl, Monocytes % 7.9%. Eosinophils 0.30 x 1000/μl. Eosinophils % 3.0%. Basophils 0.10 x 1000/μl. Basophils % 0.6%.
Biochemistry: glucose 95 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.67 mg/dl. Sodium 139 mEq/l. Potassium 3.44 mEq/l. Chlorine 106 mEq/l. Total protein 6,0 g/dl. Albumin 3,3 g/dl. Calcium 8.2 mg/dl. ALT (GPT) 24 U/l. AST (GOT) 32 U/l. Gamma-GT 8 U/l. Alkaline phosphatase 64 U/l. Bilirubin 0.4 mg/dl.
Coagulation: prothrombin activity 91%. Prothrombin time 12,1 sec. INR (laboratory) 1.05. TTPa 26 sec. Fibrinogen (derivative) 375 mg/dl.
Serialisation of markers of myocardial damage: 1st profile: CK 456 U/l, troponin T hs 217.8 ng/l. 2nd profile: CK 340 U/l, troponin T hs 206.9 ng/l. 3rd profile: CK 353 U/l, troponin T hs 224.3 ng/l
Urgent coronary angiography: right dominance. Coronary arteries without angiographic lesions (short intramyocardial stretch in mid AD).
Regulated transthoracic echocardiogram: study performed in sinus rhythm at 66 bpm.
Left ventricle not dilated, with normal wall thickness. Segmental contractility with hypokinesia of the apex and lateral apical segment. Preserved systolic function (LVEF 57% by Simpson biplane). Normal diastolic function. Non-dilated right ventricle with normal systolic function. Normal sized left atrium. Right atrium of normal size. Aortic valve: morphologically and functionally normal. Mitral valve: morphologically and functionally normal. Tricuspid valve: morphologically normal, with trivial insufficiency that allows estimating PSP of 24 mmHg. No indirect signs of pulmonary hypertension. Inferior vena cava not dilated with collapse > 50% with inspiration. Aortic root and aortic arch of normal size. No coarctation. Atrial septum intact, without suspicion of intracardiac shunt by colour Doppler. Pericardium of normal thickness and refractoriness, without effusion. Presence of two apical masses of at least 23 x 11 mm and 16 x 11 mm assessed in short axis with medium echogenicity, both with pedicle and slightly mobile in the left ventricle. With respect to the study of 48 hours ago, very discreet reduction in size, with the two masses persisting with the appearance of a thrombus in the LV apex.
Urgent CT angiography of the abdomen and lower limbs: findings compatible with arterial occlusions in the common iliac and left popliteal arteries.
Renal infarction in the right lower pole of new appearance with respect to the previous one. Adrenal glands with no notable findings.
Cardiac magnetic radiography (CMR): left ventricle not dilated or hypertrophic. Normal systolic function. Right ventricle not dilated with normal systolic function. No alterations in segmental contractility. Atria not dilated. Morphologically and functionally normal valves. No pericardial abnormalities. T2 STIR sequences do not show areas suggestive of oedema. In the first-pass myocardial perfusion sequence there are no perfusion defects. In the early enhancement sequence, no intracavitary thrombus images are identified. In the late enhancement sequences no areas of pathological uptake in the myocardium of both ventricles suggesting the presence of fibrosis are seen.
CONCLUSION: Absence of images compatible with ventricular thrombus.
Absence of myocardial oedema and late enhancement suggestive of ischaemic heart disease. Qp/Qs 1.33 with presence of partial anomalous pulmonary venous drainage with left superior pulmonary vein draining into left brachiocephalic trunk.

CLINICAL COURSE
This is a 35-year-old woman with no medical history of interest who was admitted from the Tajo Hospital for peripheral arterial embolism in the right upper limb. The angio-CT scan showed proximal occlusion of the right humeral artery, so a Fogarty catheter embolectomy was performed, as well as, incidentally, an image compatible with intraventricular thrombus. A review of the study revealed an area of subendocardial hypoperfusion with almost transmural extension in apical segments of the anterior septum and a large apical thrombus. An urgent echocardiogram was performed which showed an LVEF of 45% with alterations in apical contractility, confirming the presence of two apical thrombi, so, given the suspicion of complicated acute myocardial infarction of undetermined time of evolution, an urgent coronary angiography was performed which showed normal coronary arteries.
He was transferred to the coronary unit, where sodium heparin perfusion was started and, in stable condition, he was transferred to the conventional hospital ward. During his stay there, he presented a new embolic event in the right lower limb despite correct anticoagulation (evidenced by serial controls by aPTT, with frequent adjustments of the sodium heparin infusion rate) which required urgent thrombectomy, with good subsequent evolution.
A regular CMR was performed, which showed LVEF recovery, without late enhancement and with resolution of the thrombus.
Given the clinical stability and the resolution of the medical-surgical processes that led to his admission, after 10 days of hospitalisation he was discharged from hospital with outpatient monitoring. Anticoagulation with acenocoumarol was decided for 3-6 months with subsequent review in vascular surgery and cardiology consultations.

DIAGNOSIS
Cocaine-induced stress cardiomyopathy (tako-tsubo syndrome).
Intraventricular thrombus in the context of the above, resolved on discharge.
Proximal occlusion of right humeral artery of embolic nature, treated by embolectomy.
Embolism in the left common and external iliac arteries and in the third portion of the left popliteal artery, treated by transfemoral thromboembolectomy.
Asymptomatic right lower pole renal infarction.
Partial anomalous pulmonary venous drainage with left superior pulmonary vein draining into left brachiocephalic trunk. QP/QS 1.33.
