HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Patient aged 15 years. Correct vaccination schedule, with no relevant history at birth, during the neonatal period or in childhood. His father reported that he had a "benign murmur" at cardiac level, discharged without further check-ups. Personal history of streptococcal pharyngitis and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Absence of usual treatment.
He came to the emergency department after finding elevated blood pressure: 210/90 mmHg, asymptomatic, taken at home with a blood pressure monitor. Given the patient's age and the suspicion of secondary hypertension, nephrological assessment was requested. Following blood and urine tests with no findings and a normal abdominal ultrasound scan, we requested an assessment by us.
His grandfather, who was undergoing treatment for hypertension, measured his blood pressure (BP) daily.
As an entertainment, imitating his grandfather, he started to use his blood pressure monitor, with a very different result to the expected... He tells us that in the last two weeks he has been taking daily BP readings, with average BPs of 160-170 mmHg. Today, on finding a higher figure than usual, he decided to go to the emergency room. Asymptomatic, no neurological or cardiovascular symptoms.
Physical examination showed good general condition, correct growth and development. Normal features. BP after initiation of short half-life antihypertensive drugs 159/92 mmHg. Heart rate 80 bpm, no audible murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation normal ventilation, interscapular systolic murmur. Radial pulses present and symmetrical. Femoral and pedial pulses decreased. BP measurement in both arms and legs with the following result: ESD 155/85 mmHg, ESI 142/81 mmHg, EID 105/65 mmHg, EII 105/70 mmHg.

S
ECG: sinus rhythm at 65 bpm. Revisema a Narrow QRS, normal axis around 70o. LV hypertrophy criteria: Sokolow-Lyon 39 mm. No relevant repolarisation alterations.
Chest X-ray: Roesler's notches and 3's sign with absence of aortic button.
Echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle (LV), moderate concentric LV hypertrophy (12 mm). Preserved systolic function (EF 68%), without alterations of segmental wall contractility. Normal diastolic pattern. Right ventricle of normal size, preserved function (TAPSE 22 mm). Atria of normal size. Mitral valve: thin leaflets, preserved opening kinetics. No reflux. Mild TR. PAPS 33 mmHg. Bicuspid type I aortic valve (VAo) with fusion of right coronary leaflet and left coronary leaflet. Preserved opening kinetics, mild central regurgitation jet. Aortic root, visualised ascending aorta and aortic arch of normal size (29 mm). Coarctation of the aorta after left subclavian outflow with a diameter of 4 mm, peak systolic gradient of 63 mmHg and significant diastolic prolongation. Distal aortic arch 13 mm. Continuous abdominal aortic Doppler with peak systolic at 0.86 m/s. Decreased protomesosystolic flow in left femoral artery without protodiastolic inversion. Inferior vena cava not dilated, with preserved inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion.
Chest CT angiography: aortic coarctation with severe compromise of the aortic lumen (minimum diameter in the coarctation 5 mm). Presence of abundant collateral circulation through internal mammary, intercostal and posterior scapular arteries. Bicuspid aortic valve.

MIX DUB
After initial suspicion based on anamnesis and physical examination findings, an echocardiogram was performed, confirming the presumptive diagnosis: coarctation of the aorta and secondary hypertension.
He was admitted to the cardiology ward for blood pressure control and to complete the study. Thoracic CT angiography was performed to assess management. He was assessed by the congenital heart unit of our hospital, with controlled BP, and was discharged from hospital pending percutaneous intervention.
Treatment on discharge: olmesartan-amlodipine 40/5 mg, bisoprolol 2.5 mg, eplerenone 25 mg.

DIAGNOSIS
Coarctation of the aorta.
Secondary arterial hypertension.
Bicuspid aortic valve without dysfunction.
