HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

PERSONAL HISTORY
Previous illnesses:
Cardiovascular risk factors: arterial hypertension.
No previous cardiological history.
Primary biliary cirrhosis (AMA-M2 +) Child-Pugh A6 with portal hypertension:
Haemorrhage from oesophageal varices > 10 years ago. Secondary prophylaxis with endoscopic ligation (last ligation in 2014, last gastroscopy in October 2018: no varices) and low-dose beta-blocker (propranolol 10 mg every 24h).
Chronic portal thrombosis, suspended anticoagulation.
Single episode of grade II hepatic encephalopathy in March 2018 in the context of constipation.
Osteoporosis.
No surgical history.
No known drug allergies.
Previous medication: metamizole 575 mg/8h, alendronic acid 70 mg weekly, resincholestyramine 4 g/8h, hydroxyzine 25 mg/day, propranolol 10 mg/day, hydroferol 266 mcg in 1 ampoule weekly, lactulose 10 g/8h, rifaximin.

CURRENT ILLNESS
Referred to the emergency department by her primary care physician for progressive dyspnoea to minimal effort. The patient reported progressive deterioration of exertional capacity over the past year to current New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class III/IV. She denies orthopnoea or episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea. No haemoptysis, chest tightness or syncope on exertion or at rest. No wheezing, no infectious symptoms, no new externalisation of bleeding.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Blood pressure 110/74 mmHg. Heart rate 70 bpm. Haemodynamically stable and eupneic at rest, tolerating decubitus. Jugular ingurgitation up to the upper third, positive hepatojugular reflux. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic, rough holosystolic murmur III/VI in left sternal border, reinforcement of S2 and third audible noise. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur, no additional sounds. Abdomen: hepatomegaly of two tracts, non-pulsatile and without semiology of ascites. Lower limbs: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT).

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus bradycardia at 56 bpm, normal PR, wide QRS of 150 ms, with morphology of right bundle branch block (RBBB), right ventricular (RV) overload pattern, negative T wave in V1-V3 in relation to previous alterations.
Blood tests on admission: Hb 13.2 g/dl, platelets 75,000 /μl, leukocytes 3,600/μl. Spontaneous INR of 1.45. Glucose 134 mg/dl, creatinine 0.68 mg/dl, estimated glomerular filtration rate (MDRD-4 IDMS) > 60 ml/min/1.73 m2, protein 6.7 g/dl, albumin 3.2 g/dl, sodium 141 mmol/l, potassium 4.2 mmol/l, NT-proBNP 1,132 ng/l.
Autoimmunity: ANCA negative. Native anti-DNA 2.30 IU/mL (negative).
Antibodies associated with connective tissue diseases negative.
HIV, HCV and HBV serologies negative. CMV: IgG positive, IgM negative.
Ferritin 12 μg/l, iron 79 μg/dl, IST 31%, transferrin 200 mg/dl.
TSH 1.86 mIU/l.
Proteinogram: albumin 47.7%, alpha-1 3.7%, alpha-2 7.6%, beta-1 5.5%, beta-2 6.8%, gamma 28.7%, albumin/globulin index 0.9.
Glycosylated haemoglobin 4.6%.
HDL-cholesterol 54 mg/dl, LDL-cholesterol 48 mg/dl, total cholesterol 115 mg/dl, atherogenicity index 2.1, triglycerides 63 mg/dl.
At discharge: NT-proBNP 704 ng/l.
Chest X-ray on admission: slight cardiomegaly, prominent pulmonary hilarity, absence of pleural effusion and infiltrates.
Transthoracic echocardiogram: non-dilated left ventricle, with normal wall thickness. Marked flattening of the septum. Normal global systolic function (estimated left ventricular ejection fraction [LVEF] 61%), without alterations in segmental contraction. Transmitral filling pattern of impaired relaxation. Non-dilated left atrium. Right atrium slightly dilated (area 24 cm2). Severely dilated, hypertrophic and trabeculated right ventricle with severely depressed global systolic function. Mitral valve with calcium in the annulus and functionally normal. Sclerosed aortic valve without signs of stenosis, with mild insufficiency. Aortic root not dilated. Proximal ascending aorta not dilated.
Tricuspid valve morphologically normal, with moderate-severe (III-IV/IV) functional insufficiency. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure estimated at 75 mmHg. RV gradient 70 mmHg. Pulmonary flow systolic notch suggestive of significant pulmonary hypertension.
Inferior vena cava not dilated with physiological inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion.
V/Q scan: acceptably homogeneous distribution of the macroaggregates injected in the perfusion study, without subsegmental and/or wedge-shaped defects that are discordant in the ventilation study and that could be gammagraphically suggestive of pulmonary thromboembolism. Conclusion: low probability of pulmonary thromboembolism.
Respiratory function tests: FEV1 1.47 L (92.7%). FVC 1.85 L (94%). FEV1/FVC 0.79.
MMEF 75/25 0.42 (18.6%). DLCOc/VA 0.85 (60.6%).
CT of pulmonary arteries and lung parenchyma: small amount of fluid in upper pericardial recesses. Calcifications of the coronary tree. Millimetric prevascular lymph nodes, low right paratracheal, right hilar and subcarinal adenopathy of 10 mm. Increased calibre of central pulmonary arteries, as a sign of precapillary pulmonary hypertension. No repletion defects were observed in the main, lobar or segmental pulmonary arteries, suggesting pulmonary thromboembolism. Although there is a slight asymmetry in the vascularisation of both upper lobes, there are no alterations suggestive of chronic thromboembolic disease. Liver with polylobulated contours, with enlargement of the left lobe, as evidence of chronic liver disease. Adenomatous hyperplasia of both adrenal glands.
Accessory spleen of 11 mm, adjacent to the anterior splenic margin.
Right catheterisation: pressures: Ao: 128/60/87 mmHg; AD: 10 mmHg; VD: 83/14 mmHg;
AP: 83/30/48 mmHg; PCP: 14 mmHg. O2 saturations: Ao: 94%; AP: 68%.
Calculations:
GC thermodilution: 5.47 l/min; IC thermodilution 3.2 l/min/m2. GC Fick: 5.9 l/min; IC Fick: 3.45 l/min/m2.
SVR: 1,126.14 dynes. PVR: 6.03 UW.
Baseline arterial blood gases: pH 7.46, pCO2 30 mmHg, pO2 59 mmHg, lactate 1.8.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
Admitted for study of possible pulmonary hypertension based on the results of transthoracic echocardiography, with indirect data of pulmonary hypertension, severe dilatation and dysfunction of the right ventricle. A complete aetiological study of pulmonary hypertension was performed, with full laboratory tests, respiratory function tests and ventilation/perfusion scintigraphy, with no relevant findings. After ruling out Dana Point groups 2, 3 and 4, a right heart catheterisation was performed, which confirmed precapillary pulmonary hypertension, with a mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) of 48 mmHg, probably related to portopulmonary syndrome given the patient's clinical context. Pulmonary hypertension was classified as intermediate risk, and bosentan and oral tadalafil were started during admission at low doses, with good tolerance, for subsequent titration on an outpatient basis. On the other hand, propranolol was discontinued in agreement with the digestive system specialists due to severe RV dysfunction. On discharge, haemodynamically stable, with minimal right congestion data controlled with low doses of oral furosemide, with no alarm data of pulmonary hypertension. Appointment for follow-up in pulmonary hypertension consultations, pending ergospirometry and 6 ambulatory MWT to complete risk stratification.

DIAGNOSIS
Portopulmonary hypertension. WHO functional class III. Intermediate risk.
Primary biliary cirrhosis. Chronic portal thrombosis with portal hypertension.
Previous episode of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. No oesophageal varices at last examination.
Previous episode of hepatic encephalopathy.
Arterial hypertension.
Osteoporosis.
