HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

BACKGROUND:

Family history:
Mother with early ischaemic heart disease (46 years old). Died at the age of 50 due to acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Uncles on maternal side with early ischaemic heart disease.
Brother died at the age of 28 due to AMI.
Brother with ischaemic heart disease at the age of 39.

Personal history:
No known drug allergies
No known toxic habits.
Cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF): no hypertension (HT), no known diabetes mellitus (DM). Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia with positive genetic study (M334 mutation) under follow-up in the lipid and cardiovascular (CV) risk unit.

Cardiological history: chronic multivessel ischaemic cardiopathy: debut in December 2006 with inferoposterior AMI with partially revascularised multivessel disease (ADA and marginal with implantation of 4 drug-eluting stents, chronically occluded right coronary artery (RCA) with very diseased vessel). Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) preserved. New admission in 2008 for unstable angina with new coronary angiography with slight luminal loss of previously implanted stents.
Chronic occlusion of the RCA and no progression of the disease to other levels. In 2011, stress echocardiography was performed and was positive with ischaemia in the RCA territory, new catheterisation without restenosis of the stents implanted in the anterior descending artery (AD) and circumflex artery (CX). 100% occlusion of the middle RCA treated by percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) and two drug-eluting stents in the proximal and middle segments.
Left hemispheric stroke in November 2010.
Fibromyalgia.
Operated on lumbar hernia.
Usual treatment: acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 100 mg c/24 hours; bisoprolol 2.5 mg c/24 hours; telmisartan 40 mg c/24 hours; pantoprazole 20 mg c/24 hours; NTG transdermal patch 10 mg; ezetimibe 10 mg c/24 hours; rosuvastatin 20 mg c/24 hours, duloxetine 60 mg c/24 hours; sublingual NFC if chest pain.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
Patient with personal history of heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia with positive genetic diagnosis and a history of revascularised early multivessel chronic ischaemic heart disease under follow-up in the lipid and CV risk unit of our hospital without reaching target therapeutic levels of LDL cholesterol according to current indications in secondary prevention, despite treatment with combined lipid-lowering agents at maximum tolerated doses in addition to multiple readmissions to cardiology for unstable angina with progression of coronary heart disease. In October 2014, given the persistent poor control of LDL cholesterol levels and his high cardiovascular risk, it was decided to include the patient in the LDL apheresis programme, which was started after performing an A-V fistula in MSI with good initial tolerance.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Good general condition, well hydrated and perfused. Eupneic at rest, tolerates decubitus. Afebrile and haemodynamically stable. Blood pressure (BP) 129/60 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 65 bpm. Positive corneal arc. Cardiorespiratory auscultation with rhythmic tones, no murmurs.
Conservative vesicular murmur with no superimposed noises. Absence of oedema in the lower limbs with pulses present. Bilateral femoral murmurs.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM (ECG): sinus rhythm at 78 bpm, normal axis. PR 128 msec, narrow QRS with low voltages in DIII.
LIPID PROFILE (2014): total cholesterol 210 mg/Dl. Triglycerides 139 mg/dl. Apo-A Apolipoprotein 151 mg/dl. HDL cholesterol 52 mg/dl. LDL cholesterol 130 mg/dl. Apo-B Apolipoprotein 134 mg/dl. LDL/HDL 2.5. Lipoprotein (a) 59 mg/dl.
ECOCARDIOGRAPHY: left atrium not dilated. Left ventricle (LV) of size (LVEDD 45 mm) and without wall thickening (septum 10 mm), slight apical hypokinesia with preserved global EF. Mitral valve with thin leaflets and preserved opening. Normal aortic root and valve. Normal right chambers. RV with preserved LVEF. No tricuspid insufficiency (TI).
Carotid Doppler ultrasound: right internal carotid artery with concentric iosechoic plaque at its origin causing a stenosis of around 30%. Left internal carotid artery with hyperechoic plaque in the far wall of the bifurcation causing a stenosis of around 35%. A. dominant left and hypoplastic right vertebra.
ILEO-FEMORAL DOPPLER ECOGRAPHY: using colour Doppler the iliac, common/superficial femoral and popliteal arterial systems of both lower limbs, obtaining flow curves with practically normal morphology and velocities in all the paths examined, with only minimal alterations being observed, although in no case compatible with significant stenosis. Conclusions: minimal atheromatous irregularities that in no case produce significant stenosis.
Lipid profile pre-apheresis: cholesterol 190 mg/dl. HDL cholesterol 51 mg/dl. LDL cholesterol 117 mg/dl. Triglycerides 110 mg/dl. Apo-A lipoprotein 145 mg/dl. Apo-B Apolipoprotein 128 mg/dl. LDL/HDL 2.3. Lipoprotein 65 mg/dl.
Lipid profile post-apheresis: cholesterol 76 mg/dl, HDL-cholesterol 41 mg/dl, LDL-cholesterol 28 mg/dl. Triglycerides 35 mg/dl. Apo-A Apolipoprotein 119 mg/dl. Apo-B Apolipoprotein 33 mg/dl.
Last lipid profile: cholesterol 118 mg/dl, HDL-cholesterol 43 mg/dl, LDL-cholesterol 52 mg/dl, triglycerides 115 mg/dl.

CLINICAL COURSE
The patient started the LDL apheresis programme in October 2014 with good tolerance, although he reported intense asthenia in the days following the sessions, which gradually improved. In the months following the start of the apheresis programme, the various follow-up visits showed that target LDL cholesterol levels were reached after the apheresis sessions, which remained above target levels during the interapheresis periods, but the patient began to show weight gain and progressive oedematisation from the start of the sessions, with significant fatigue after the sessions, which limited his life.
A regular echocardiography was requested with preserved systolic function, known segmental contractility alterations and no significant valvulopathies. Given the regular tolerance to the last sessions, it was decided, together with the patient, to start treatment with a recently marketed anti-PCKS9 drug and to consider ending the LDL apheresis programme if good progress was made.
In the following months, after starting treatment with an anti-PCSK9 drug combined with rosuvastatin and ezetimibe, LDL levels of <70 mg/dl were maintained in the inter-apheresis lipid profiles, and so in August 2016 the patient was finally withdrawn from apheresis sessions.
Subsequently, he has continued to undergo check-ups in the lipid unit until today, maintaining LDL cholesterol levels below the target levels in secondary prevention without complications or adverse effects related to the drug and allowing the titration of statin doses, as well as without new admissions or consultations for angina.

DIAGNOSIS
Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia with positive genetic study (M334 mutation) controlled under treatment with an anti-PCSK9 drug.
Early revascularised chronic multivessel ischaemic heart disease.
