HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 41 years old, no drug allergies.

BACKGROUND:
Cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF): dyslipidaemia. Ex-smoker of 20 cigarettes/day.
Sporadic cocaine and alcohol user.
Left frontoparietal ischaemic stroke in the context of cocaine use (2009). Complementary studies performed (electrocardiogram [ECG] monitoring, Doppler of supra-aortic trunks, transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) with bubble test, study of coagulopathy) compatible with normality. No sequelae at present. No personal or family cardiological history.
Usual treatment: acetylsalicylic acid 300 mg/day, simvastatin 20 mg/day.

CURRENT ILLNESS:
She attended the emergency department for neurological focality consisting of motor aphasia and dysarthria of onset 30 minutes ago. A cranial computed tomography (CT) scan was performed showing a known left frontoparietal lesion, with no acute ischaemic or haemorrhagic findings. The on-call neurology department was contacted and, given a National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of less than 4 (not very disabling symptoms), he was not considered a candidate for reperfusion treatment. He was admitted to the stroke unit for haemodynamic control, evolution and study.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Blood pressure (BP) 130/70 mmHg. Heart rate (HR) 65 bpm. Oxygen saturation (SatO2) 96% (with room air). Afebrile. Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic without murmurs. Pulmonary auscultation: normoventilation. Abdomen nondescript. Lower extremities without oedema or indirect signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Pedial pulses present and symmetrical.
Neurological examination: normoreactive isochoric pupils. Normal cranial nerves. Motor aphasia with mild dysarthria. Strength and sensitivity preserved and symmetrical. No campimetric alterations, dysmetria or gait disturbances.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 65 bpm, without conduction disorders, without repolarisation alterations.
CHEST X-RAY: cardiothoracic index within the normal range, lung fields without condensation.
ANALYSIS: Biochemistry: glucose 90 mg/dl, urea 24 mg/dl, creatinine 0.9 mg/dl, chlorine 99 mEq/l, sodium 141 mEq/l, potassium 4.5 mEq/l. Thyroid function, vitamin B12 and folic acid normal.
Haemogram: leucocytes 10,100, Hb 16.4 g/dl, Ht 47.8%, platelets 260,000. Serology: negative. Urine toxins: negative.
TROMBOPHILY STUDY: heterozygous for C677T polymorphism, normal for factor V Leyden and prothrombin G20210A mutations.
TTE: left ventricle (LV) not dilated or hypertrophic, normal global and segmental systolic function. Left atrium slightly dilated. Right chambers normal, right ventricular (RV) contractility normal. Mitral valve: on the free edge of the anterior mitral leaflet there is a nodular, homogeneous image, which does not interfere with valve kinetics.
Aortic valve: trivalve, thin leaflets, competent. Mild tricuspid insufficiency (TI). Inferior vena cava (IVC) not dilated with preserved inspiratory collapse. Normal systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAPS). Absence of pericardial effusion.
CARDIAC NUCLEAR MAGNETIC RESONANCE (MRI): nodular image of about 7 mm attached to the septal leaflet of the mitral valve, poorly defined, which could correspond to fibroelastoma. Late enhancement sequences show no foci of uptake indicating areas of myocardial necrosis or fibrosis. Given the suspicion, transesophageal echocardiography is recommended.
Transesophageal echocardiogram: Atrial septum intact.
Left atrial septum free of thrombus. Mitral valve: thin leaflets, mobility and opening preserved. On the atrial side of the anterior mitral leaflet (festoon A1-A2) there is an oval mass, heterogeneous in appearance, sessile, without interfering with valve function, suggesting papillary fibroelastoma as a first diagnostic possibility. The rest of the study is superimposable on the transthoracic study.
CARDIAC CATHETERISM: coronary angiography: right dominance. Left coronary artery (LMCA): good calibre, without lesions. Descending anterior descending artery (DA): no stenosis, intramyocardial middle segment with slight associated milking. Circumflex (Cx): moderate development, no lesions.
Bisector: long and of good calibre, without stenosis. CD: no stenosis. Aortography: ascending aorta of normal size, trivalve aortic valve, normofunctioning.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During his stay on the ward, progressive improvement with complete resolution of the neurological symptoms within 24 hours. No arrhythmic events were observed on ECG monitoring. The echocardiographic study showed a mass in the anterior mitral leaflet suggesting papillary fibroelastoma as the underlying aetiological process of the vascular event presented by the patient.
Given the risk of potential embolic complications, it was decided to complete the study on an outpatient basis and to consider tumour excision, and the patient was referred to the cardiac surgery department, which accepted the case.
Valve repair surgery and tumour excision was performed (CPB time 100 minutes): triangular resection of the anterior leaflet (A1 festoon) where the tumour was located and annuloplasty with Physio ring no. 34. Postoperative period in the intensive care unit (ICU) without incident, starting rehabilitation and early discharge from the ward.
The biopsy was sent to the pathological anatomy service, confirming the definitive diagnosis of papillary fibroelastoma.

DIAGNOSIS
Cardioembolic transient ischaemic attack. Mitral papillary fibroelastoma. Tumour resection surgery and mitral annuloplasty.
