HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

History
The patient is an 18-year-old male, with no known drug allergies or toxic habits. He had presented in childhood with some episodes of bronchospasm related to mite and pollen allergy that improved with beta-2 mimetic inhalers, but he had been crisis-free since the age of 14 years, and he regularly played sports with good tolerance.
He first consulted the emergency department of our hospital in 2004 for self-limited abdominal pain, and the following findings were noted in the complementary tests performed:
The electrocardiogram (ECG) showed sinus rhythm at 55 bpm, with a right QRS axis and morphology of complete right bundle branch block (RBBB), criteria for right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH), and repolarisation abnormalities in V1-V4.
Laboratory tests showed discrete polyglobulia (17.3 gn/dl).
The chest X-ray showed prominence of the pulmonary arteries and the arch of the azygos.
In view of these findings, a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was performed, which revealed indirect evidence of severe pulmonary hypertension, with moderate hypertrophy and mild dilatation of the right ventricle (RV), as well as a hitherto unknown patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). Subsequently, a right heart catheterisation confirmed the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension (PHT) (high mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) and normal pulmonary capillary pressure (PCP). In May 2004, the patient underwent surgery at a private centre, with section and closure of both ductal stumps by left thoracotomy. He had the following complications from the procedure: a resolved left recurrent nerve palsy and a left pneumothorax. In the following years, fibrosing mediastinitis was also discovered, requiring treatment with systemic corticosteroids.
In September 2005, a post-surgery right heart catheterisation was performed, which revealed persistent severe pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (PAPm 73 mmHg, PCP 7 mmHg, pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) 13.75 UW, cardiac output (CO) 4.8 l/min). In addition, there was evidence of reopening of the PDA with residual flow. In view of these findings, the patient began follow-up in the monographic pulmonary hypertension clinic at our hospital. He had normal respiratory function tests, NT-proBNP 22 ng/ml and persistent polyglobulia (20 g/dl), no nocturnal desaturation in pulse oximetry and in the 6-minute walk test he covered 705 m with maintained constants.
In 2008 he was referred to a pulmonary hypertension unit of a reference hospital for pulmonary hypertension. At that time the patient was in functional class I, without cyanosis or signs of right heart failure (HF). Discrete polyglobulia persists, and on TTE the PAWD is seen with a right-to-left flow and a hypertrophic RV with moderate dysfunction. Ergospirometry shows functional class I with moderately reduced functional capacity and normal blood pressure (BP). Given the patient's good functional class, re-evaluation in 9 months is recommended before starting specific treatment for PAH.
Finally, given the persistence of severe PAH in a new catheterisation (PAPm 90 mmHg, PCP 10 mmHg, PVR 14 UW, GC 5.6 l/min), it was decided to start specific treatment for PAH, initially with sitaxentan, which was suspended due to its withdrawal from the market and replaced by ambrisentan 5 mg/24 hours, later adding tadalafil 40 mg/24 hours.
In November 2018, he was referred for the first time to the adult congenital heart disease clinic at our hospital. At that time he was clinically stable with NYHA I-II/IV dyspnoea. NT-proBNP 279 pg/ml. TTE unchanged with respect to previous ones. On treatment with ambrisentan 10 mg/24 hours + tadalafil 40 mg/24 hours + symbicort 160/4.5 mcg 1 inhalations/12 hours.
Subsequent check-ups did not show much functional change, changes in TTE or treatment. In April 2019, a cardiac MRI was performed, showing progression of RV dysfunction with RV ejection fraction (RVEF) of 37% (RVEF in May 2018 was 57%). However, it seems that the patient is reluctant to have a follow-up right heart catheterisation, even though it is suggested to him to consider adding a third drug to the treatment of his PAH.

Current disease
In June 2019, the patient was admitted for an episode of frank haemoptysis (50 cc) and a gurgling sensation in the left hemithorax that required admission to the coronary unit of our hospital for close monitoring. He had previously presented another episode of haemoptysis in April of the same year, which required admission to the respiratory department and had been managed conservatively.

Physical examination
On admission to the coronary unit, the patient was haemodynamically stable (blood pressure (BP) 110/58 mmHg, heart rate (HR) 98 bpm), oxygen saturation (O2) 96% with inspired O2 fraction (FiO2) 21% and no signs of right HF.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 50 bpm, normal PR, right axis, QRS with BCRDHH morphology with criteria of HVD and secondary repolarisation alterations in precordial leads.
CBC: glucose 93 mg/dl, urea 32 mg/dl, creatinine 1.09 mg/dl, GPT 14 U/L, bilirubin 0.9 mg/dl, calcium 9.6 mg/dl, sodium 140 mEq/l, potassium null, chlorine 105 mEq/l, albumin 4.4 g/dl, C-reactive protein (CRP) 1.60 mg/l, creatine kinase (CK) 104 U/l, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) null. Haemoglobin 20.9 g/dl, haematocrit 59.5%, mean corpuscular volume (MCV) 85.5 fL, mean corpuscular haemoglobin (MCH) 30 pg, erythrocyte distribution amplitude (EDA) 14.8%, platelets 172000, 5170 leukocytes (35.40% lymphocytes, 52.60% neutrophils, 7.70% monocytes). Prothrombin time 66%, international normalised ratio (INR) 1.3, activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) 42s, fibrinogen 313 mg/dl.
Chest X-ray: cardiothoracic index 0.5, with prominence of the pulmonary arteries.
TTE: left ventricle (LV) neither dilated nor hypertrophic with preserved global function, very marked septal flattening due to overload of right pressures, with a diastolic eccentricity index of 1.5. The mitral valve is normofunctioning and the aortic valve is bicuspid due to complete fusion of the right and left coronary sinuses, with minimal aortic insufficiency. The RV is moderately dilated and severely hypertrophic, with moderately depressed function. The tricuspid valve is thickened with poorly visualised right ventricle-right atrium (RV-RA) gradient, but at least 100 mmHg. The inferior vena cava is not dilated, with inspiratory collapse greater than 50%. Mild flow acceleration of up to 26 mmHg without diastolic tail is seen in the arch. Dilated pulmonary artery trunk (40 mm). The ductus is wide, with right-to-left systolic flow.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
The patient remained monitored and under conservative treatment with oral codeine and morphine chloride for 24 hours in the coronary unit, haemodynamically stable at all times and with no new episodes of haemoptysis. The patient was transferred to the reference hospital for pulmonary hypertension to assess the possibility of starting a third line of treatment for PAH.
At this hospital, a new right catheterisation was performed prior to starting intravenous prostacyclin (PAPm 87 mmHg, PCP 6 mmHg, PVR 17.34 UW, GC by thermodilution 4.67 l/min). Initially, epoprostenol was prescribed, but it required several changes of venous line due to phlebitis, so finally, titration with subcutaneous treprostinil was started with good tolerance, reaching a dose of 24 ng/kg/min at discharge.
After implantation of the subcutaneous pump, treprostinil can be progressively increased. Since the start of the drug, the patient reports clinical improvement, no alarm symptoms and no new episodes of haemoptysis. In addition, the control echocardiogram performed showed an improvement in RV function, which was currently at the lower limit of normality.

DIAGNOSIS
Severe residual pulmonary arterial hypertension after surgery. Intervened patent ductus arteriosus.
Right ventricular function at the lower limit of normal. Fibrosing mediastinitis.
