HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

PERSONAL HISTORY
76-year-old male. No known drug allergies. Lives alone, independent for basic activities of daily living, no cognitive impairment. Ex-smoker (80 pack-years) and former heavy drinker for 7 years.
No known metabolic diseases of interest.
Cardiological history: self-limited episode of atrial fibrillation (AF), diagnosed 2 months ago in the emergency department, for which oral anticoagulation with acenocoumarol was started.
Surgical interventions: cataracts (both eyes).
Chronic medication: omeprazole 20 mg/24h, acenocoumarol (according to haematology guidelines) and clomethiazole 192 mg/24h.

CURRENT ILLNESS
Referred for cardiology consultation following diagnosis of AF on presentation to the emergency department 2 months ago due to dizziness and loss of consciousness lasting a few seconds, with subsequent recovery ad integrum. AF was recorded in the ED and spontaneously reverted to sinus rhythm and treatment was started with acenocoumarol and amiodarone. After 3 weeks of treatment, the patient discontinued amiodarone due to an error in dosage. Currently, he denies dyspnoea, chest pain or palpitations and has not experienced dizziness or syncope. He also reports no constitutional syndrome or other accompanying symptoms and reports leading an active life without limitations.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Blood pressure 156/89 mmHg. Heart rate 68 bpm.
Good general condition. Conscious, oriented and cooperative. Eupneic. Thinness and skin pallor. Well perfused.
Cardiac auscultation: rhythmic heart sounds, no murmurs.
Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur.
Abdomen: soft, depressible, not painful on palpation, no masses or megaliths.
Lower extremities: no oedema or signs of deep vein thrombosis.


COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Laboratory tests: biochemistry: glucose 108 mg/dl. Urea 32 mg/dl. Creatinine 1.11mg/dl. Sodium 142 mmol/l. Potassium 4 mmol/l. Troponin I ultrasensitive < 17ng/l. Haemogram: 13,550 leucocytes (10,080 neutrophils). Haemoglobin 16.5 g/dl. 182.000 platelets. Coagulation:
PT 92%, fibrinogen 509 mg/dl, D-dimer 380 ng/ml.
Electrocardiogram (ECG) in the emergency department: AF with ventricular response at 120 bpm, incomplete right bundle branch block (RBBB), without repolarisation alterations.
ECG in cardiology consultation: sinus rhythm (SR) at 68 bpm, normal PR, RBBB, no repolarisation abnormalities.
Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index, no condensation or vascular redistribution.
Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE): non-dilated left ventricle (DTD 47), non-hypertrophic, with normal global systolic function (LVEF 65%), without alterations of segmental contractility. Non-dilated right ventricle, with normal morphology and systolic function (TAPSE 20). Normal mitral filling pattern of impaired relaxation without elevation of filling pressures (E/E Ì11). Normal mitral valve. Aortic valve sclerotic, appears trivalve, normal function. Atria of normal size. Atrial septum (AIS) apparently intact. Implanted mass on the atrial side of the tricuspid valve, at lateral level, 2 x 1.8 cm, mottled echocardiographic pattern.
Absence of stenosis and minimal tricuspid insufficiency that does not allow estimation of pulmonary arterial systolic pressure (PSAP). No indirect evidence of pulmonary hypertension.
Visible segments of aortic root and arch and pulmonary artery without alterations. Normal inferior vena cava. No pericardial effusion.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
In view of the echocardiographic findings, the mass implanted on the atrial side of the tricuspid valve was interpreted as a myxoma of atypical location as a first possibility.
The diagnostic suspicion and the need for surgical intervention to remove the mass for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes is explained to the patient. The patient understands the situation and accepts the procedure; therefore, pre-surgical studies are completed with coronary angiography which shows no coronary lesions. The patient underwent surgery, without incident, and the diagnosis of myxoma was confirmed in the histological study of the excised specimen.

DIAGNOSIS
Myxoma located on the atrial side of the tricuspid valve.
Paroxysmal AF, first recorded episode, CHA2DVASc 2, HASBLED 1.
