HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
No known drug allergies. Ex-smoker for 30 years. Ex-excessive drinker for 3-4 years. CVRF: hypertension, dyslipidaemia. No diabetes mellitus. Studied in May 2015 by the Chest Pain Unit for recurrent chest pain with negative ischaemia detection tests. Previous surgical interventions: appendectomy.
Usual treatment: simvastatin 20 mg c/24 hours; enalapril 20 mg c/24 hours.


Current disease
Patient with the previously described personal history came to the emergency department of our hospital after starting with oppressive central thoracic pain, radiating to the shoulder and left upper limb, without associated vegetative cortex while he was shaving. Given the persistence of the pain, he decided to sit down, subsequently fainting with sudden loss of consciousness, without prodrome and with associated cranioencephalic traumatism after hitting the floor, recovery ad integrum, without remembering anything of what had happened and without being able to specify the duration as it was not witnessed by anyone. The patient reported that he had previously been awakened by a central thoracic pain of similar characteristics, but of shorter duration and self-limited. He denied worsening of functional class, no orthopnoea or episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea. She had not had previous syncopal episodes or chest pain related to exertion or at rest.

Physical examination
The patient was stable, in good general condition. Well hydrated and perfused. Eupneic at rest and tolerating decubitus. Afebrile and haemodynamically stable. BP 203/96 mmHg. HR 80 bpm. On auscultation, rhythmic tones, no murmurs. Bladder murmur was preserved, with no other superimposed noises. The rest of the examination was unremarkable.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Electrocardiogram: sinus rhythm at 70 bpm, normal axis. PR 160 msec. Narrow QRS, rectified ST segment in V6 already described in previous records. Laboratory tests: biochemistry with renal function, glycaemia and ions in range. Haemogram with values within normality. Serial cardiac enzymes within normal range. Chest X-ray: normal cardiothoracic index. No images of parenchymal condensation, free costophrenic sinuses. Transthoracic echocardiography: left atrium of normal dimensions. Left ventricle not dilated, normal myocardial thickness. No segmental alterations of contractility are visualised, systolic function by Simpson biplane of 60 %. Trivalve aortic valve with slight fibrosclerosis, opening and mobility of its leaflets preserved. Aortic root not dilated. Mitral valve with thin leaflets and good mobility. Mitral filling pattern with E>A wave. Right chambers not dilated, preserved systolic function (TAPSE 20 mm). Mild tricuspid insufficiency allowing an estimated PAP of 17 mmHg. No pericardial effusion. Cardiac catheterisation: left coronary trunk without lesions. Descending artery without lesions with good distal vessel. Circumflex artery without lesions. Very high origin of the right coronary artery with impossibility of selective probing; aortography visualised the proximal, middle and distal segments without disease. Coronary angio-CT: anomaly in the exit of the right coronary artery which instead of leaving the right coronary sinus leaves the medial portion of the left common coronary trunk, following an interarterial path between the pulmonary artery and the ascending aorta to then reach its usual position (malignant coronary anomaly), measuring the maximum calibre at its interarterial passage of 2.5-3 mm to continue with its usual route with a calibre of 4 mm. The rest of the vessels without anomalies. Doppler ultrasound of supra-aortic trunks: non-significant stenosis of the left internal carotid artery. Non-significant stenosis of the right external carotid artery.

EVOLUTION
Patient with multiple CVRF admitted to our ward for chest pain with a high intermediate pre-test probability of ischaemic heart disease, so it was decided to carry out a test to detect intermediate ischaemia. During his admission the day before the stress test was performed, the patient presented a new episode of chest pain coinciding with high blood pressure figures and documenting electrical changes in the ECG performed, which normalised after the pain subsided, so it was decided to request direct coronary angiography, suspending the exercise stress test. The catheterisation was reported as a left coronary artery without lesions and the inability to probe the right coronary artery due to a very high origin which, given the images, was suggestive of an anomaly of the origin of this coronary artery. Given the findings, it was decided to perform a coronary angio-CT scan to confirm the suspected diagnosis, which documented the anomalous origin of the right coronary artery which, instead of leaving its usual location in the right coronary sinus, has its origin in the left common coronary trunk and then follows a path between both pulmonary arteries and the aorta and then follows its usual path, this being a malignant coronary anomaly. It was decided to present the case at a medical-surgical session to discuss the possibility of surgery for this anomaly, and the patient was accepted. The intervention was carried out during admission, proceeding to dissection and reanostomosis of the right coronary artery to the right coronary sinus with good results and without intraoperative complications. The patient evolved favourably during the postoperative period, without complications related to the intervention and without new episodes of chest pain or other symptoms, and was subsequently discharged home. After hospital discharge and with regular check-ups, the patient remains asymptomatic and in good functional class.

DIAGNOSIS
Typical chest pain in a patient with malignant coronary anomaly with origin of the right coronary artery from the left main coronary artery. Surgical intervention with reanastomosis of the right coronary artery to the aortic coronary sinus on the same side.
