HISTORY, CURRENT DISEASE AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
We present the case of a 77-year-old woman, hypertensive and diabetic, with no family history or previous cardiological history. The patient consulted the emergency department of her hospital for an episode of chest pain at rest, of about two hours' duration, accompanied by vegetative crust. She reported symptoms compatible with exertional angina during the previous two weeks, with a progressive drop in the pain threshold. There were no other cardiological symptoms in the anamnesis. An electrocardiogram was performed showing ST-segment elevation in the anterior face, and the haemodynamics department was contacted, and the patient was transferred to our hospital for primary angioplasty. Catheterisation revealed 95% stenosis in the middle LAD (see coronary angiography), which was revascularised by thromboaspiration and implantation of two drug-eluting stents. Subsequent transfer to ICU to continue immediate evolution. On admission, the patient was haemodynamically stable and in good general condition. BP 140/70 HR 90 bpm ACP: rhythmic tones without murmurs. Bladder murmur preserved without pathological sounds. Lower limbs without oedema. No congestive or low output semiology.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG on admission to Cardiology: sinus rhythm at 75 bpm. Normal axis. Normal PR. Narrow QRS QS from V1-V4 with significant ST elevation in precordial leads (more pronounced in V3-V4, "tombstone ST") and in inferior face. CBC: blood glucose 140 mg/dl, creatinine 0.90 mg/dl, urea 37 mg/dl, Na 140 mEq/l, K 3 mEq/l, Hb 10 g/dl. Leukocytosis of 14,000 on admission (predominantly polymorphonuclear) which subsequently normalised. Platelets 500,000, normal coagulation. Liver, lipid and thyroid profile without alterations. Glycated Hb 10.7%. Peak TNTUs 1327 ng/L, CPK 227 mU/ml. Coronary angiography: normo-developed anterior descending artery of good calibre, with acute lesion (95 %) in the middle segment, distal vessel TIMI 1 flow, of regular calibre. Rest without significant lesions. Right dominance. Urgent PCI on middle LAD: thromboaspiration with catheter, implanting zotarolimus-eluting stent (2.25 x 18 mm) and another non-consecutive stent-eluting stent (3 x 15 mm). Final TIMI flow 2 improved with intracoronary nitroprusside. Transthoracic echocardiography: left atrium slightly dilated (37 ml/m2). Mitral valve with calcification of the posterior annulus but with thin leaflets and good mobility. Mild central mitral regurgitation. Slightly dilated LV (VTDi 68.23 ml/m2) with 9 mm basal septum and 6.5 mm posterior wall. Mitral filling pattern with E > A and E/e Ì averaged 7. Akinesia of all apical segments with compensatory hypercontractility of the remaining segments and LVEF estimated by Simpson biplane at 65%. An interventricular septal defect was observed at the apical level compatible with VSD. The largest diameter is recorded in more anterior planes (1.3 mm). High velocity flow is achieved with Vmax 4.5 m/sec and mean gradient 42.5 mmHg. Fibrocalcified aortic valve with adequate opening and mild central insufficiency. Non-dilated RV with preserved systolic function (TAPSE 23 mm). Mild IT jet that allows estimating a PAPs of 56-57 mmHG. Non-dilated IVC with adequate inspiratory collapse. No pericardial effusion Transesophageal echocardiography: in the most apical segment of the septum, which is akinetic, there is a solution of continuity compatible with VSD with high velocity flow passage. This VSD is best defined in more anterior planes of the septum, with diameters of 1.2 cm x 1.9 cm (area > 2 cm2 with friable surrounding tissue). The septal myocardium more proximal to the defect, also akinetic, has a rarefied and hollow appearance. The VSD lacks borders in its distal part, continuing with the more apical myocardium which is very thinned.

EVOLUTION
The patient evolves favourably in the first hours after the intervention. Bedside echocardiography showed akinesia in the apical territory and preserved LVEF. The patient was monitored and treatment for acute coronary syndrome was continued. At 12 hours, the patient had a loud systolic murmur, more audible in the left parasternal focus, which was not present on arrival. A repeat transthoracic echocardiogram was performed to rule out early post-AMI mechanical complications. A solution of continuity was found in the apical interventricular septum with a high velocity left-to-right flow passage. Echocardiography also showed data compatible with pulmonary hypertension. After a diagnosis of ventricular septal defect (VSD), the Cardiac Surgery Department was consulted and, given the clinical context (advanced age in a patient with comorbidity, double antiplatelet therapy and relative stability), emergency surgery was ruled out at that time. The patient remained stable for the next 72 hours and was transferred to the cardiology monitoring unit for further treatment. She initially evolved unfavourably, presenting congestive semiology, so continuous perfusion of furosemide was started. A 24-hour infusion of levosimendan was prescribed, with subsequent improvement.

Repeat transthoracic echocardiography showed a septoapical VSD with a high-speed left-to-right shunt (V max 4.5 m/sec mean gradient 43 mmHg). The RV-AD gradient is 53 mmHg, compatible with at least moderate pulmonary hypertension. Given that there was an indication for VSD closure, and in order to decide on the optimal approach (percutaneous versus surgical), transesophageal echocardiography was requested. A 3D TEE reconstruction of the septal defect (diameter 1.2 x 1.9 cm and area > 2 cm2) was performed. The VSD lacked borders in its distal part, and the myocardium proximal to it was rarefied (friable appearance and with hollows). Given these findings, percutaneous closure was ruled out and the patient was accepted for surgery. Surgery was performed three weeks after the AMI.

DIAGNOSIS
Anterior STEMI subjected to primary angioplasty with revascularisation of the culprit lesion in the mid LAD using two drug-eluting stents. Septoapical VSD as an early post-AMI mechanical complication corrected surgically. Akinesia in the apical territory, with preserved LVEF.
