HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

44-year-old woman.

History
No cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) or toxic habits. Obstetric history: two miscarriages, several assisted reproduction processes and one spontaneous delivery. Hysterectomy and double adnexectomy for endocervical adenocarcinoma. She does not undergo treatment on a regular basis.   Current illness No previous cardiological symptoms. On the day of admission, she consulted the emergency department for an episode of intense and prolonged chest tightness (1 hour), radiating to the neck and upper limbs, while walking, without associated vegetative cortex. An electrocardiogram (ECG) was performed showing an inferolateral subendocardial lesion and serum markers of myocardial damage were found to be elevated. Admission to cardiology for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) without ST elevation.   Physical examination On arrival, haemodynamically stable with blood pressure 120/60 mmHg, heart rate 65 bpm. No jugular venous engorgement. Normal cardiorespiratory auscultation, no murmurs. Lower limbs without oedema. Radial and femoral pulses present and symmetrical.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
CBC: haemoglobin 12.6 g/dl, platelets 199,000 x 10^3/μl, leukocytes 6,220 x 10^3/μl with normal formula. Coagulation: TTPa Ratio 1,08, INR 1,03. Biochemistry: glucose 104 mg/dl; urea 24.6 mg/dl, creatinine 0.61 mg/dl, sodium 145 mEq/l, potassium 4.33 mEq/l, initial TnT 54 ng/l, peak 134 ng/l (normal < 15 ng/l), glycosylated haemoglobin 5.9%, total cholesterol 203 mg/dl, HDL 59 mg/dl, LDL 124 mg/dl, TG 98 mg/dl, non-HDL 143 mg/dl. SARS-CoV-2 RNA detection (nasopharyngeal exudate): negative. Emergency ECG: sinus rhythm at 65 bpm. Normal and constant PR. Narrow QRS, normal axis. Scarce R wave progression in precordial leads, inferolateral subendocardial lesion with subepicardial ischaemia. Chest X-ray in the emergency department: normal cardiothoracic index, free costophrenic sinuses, no parenchymal infiltrates, no bone or pleural alterations. ECG on the cardiology ward, first admission: sinus rhythm at 70 bpm. Normal and constant PR. Narrow QRS. Subepicardial lesion of up to 4 mm in the anterior face. First emergency catheterisation: left main coronary artery (LMCA) without lesions. Anterior descending artery (ADA) with diffuse lumen involvement and occlusion at the beginning of the distal segment with TIMI 0 distal flow, suggesting spontaneous haematoma dissection. Circumflex artery (Cx) with diffuse involvement of the lumen also, somewhat more marked in the middle third. Right coronary artery (RCA) dominant, with no lesions and smooth contours. Angioplasty on RCA: the guidewire progresses but appears to be in false lumen. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) was performed, which confirmed that it was a coronary dissection with haematoma from the origin of the artery, and that the guidewire was in false lumen, with collapsed true lumen. An attempt was made to pass the guidewire to the true lumen with a Sasuke double lumen catheter, but without success. IVUS was repeated and the patient recovered distal TIMI 3 flow, with spiroid dissection of the ADA in the mid-distal third. As the patient had no chest pain and isoelectric ST, it was decided not to continue with the intervention. Angio-CT of the supra-aortic trunks and aorta: study within the normal range. The ascending aorta, aortic arch and descending aorta and their visceral branches showed no abnormalities. Emergency ECG, readmission: sinus rhythm 60 bpm. Normal and constant PR. Narrow QRS, axis at 0o. Subepicardial lesion in high lateral face with associated subepicardial ischaemia, specular descent in inferior face, subendocardial lesion in anterior face with subepicardial ischaemia up to V4. Second emergency catheterisation: small calibre LMCA due to intramural haematoma verified by IVUS extending towards LAD and Cx with involvement of proximal segments of both. LAD with intramural haematoma up to the beginning of the middle segment where a double lumen is seen, similar to the final result of previous PCI, with TIMI 3 flow and proven by IVUS. Cx with intramural haematoma compressing its lumen and causing a pseudo-occlusion of the marginal branch (previously not present) with TIMI 1 flow (lesion responsible). Dominant ACD, intramural haematoma type: guidewire progresses to ADA, Cx and OM. PCI is performed with simple balloon in OM (Pantera pro 2 x 20 mm at 8 atm) and in Cx, then by cutting balloon (Wolverine 2 x 10 mm at 12 atm) with kissing, and ends with simple balloon in Cx somewhat more distal due to displacement of the haematoma (Mozec 1.5 x 15 mm at 8 atm). Coronary CT angiography (images 4 A and B): Coronary CT angiography (after second admission): Thrombosis of the false lumen is observed in the IVC, which conditions the filiform calibre of the true lumen. DA proximal proximal third filiform lumen due to thrombosis of the false lumen. Cx thrombosis of the false lumen and the proximal proximal proximal lumen. Control coronary CT angiography (at 3 weeks): TCI: short with normalisation of the luminal diameter. ADA: notable improvement in vessel calibre with persistence only at the ostial level of thrombosis of the false lumen. Intimal flap still present from the middle 1/3 with good filling of the distal vessel. Cx: normalisation of the vessel lumen with no evident signs of dissection at present. ACD: no evidence of lesions or images of dissection. DP and PL branches without lesions.

CLINICAL EVOLUTION
During his stay on the cardiology ward he presented with angina at rest with vegetative cortex and in the ECG an anterior subepicardial lesion of up to 4 mm in V2, for which urgent coronary angiography was performed where, with the aid of IVUS, an image of spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCD) with mural haematoma was observed extending from LMCA towards Cx with TIMI 3 flow and towards the LAD with distal occlusion. Final TIMI 3 flow was achieved after passing the angioplasty guidewire without stent implantation, but spiroid dissection persisted in the mid-distal segment. Angio-CT of the supra-aortic and aortic trunks was performed without detecting extracoronary vascular lesions, at discharge echocardiography without segmentarism and with preserved ejection fraction. The possibility of an underlying antiphospholipid syndrome was not ruled out, so after completing 1 week of double antiplatelet therapy and anticoagulation, he was discharged with acetylsalicylic acid and low molecular weight heparin until the hypercoagulability study was completed. However, two days after discharge from hospital, she went to the emergency department for oppressive chest pain radiating to the upper limbs with vegetative cortex, in ECG lateral subepicardial lesion, activating AMI code. Coronary angiography with progression of dissection to LMCA verified by IVUS, intramural haematoma in circumflex artery causing pseudo-occlusion of marginal branch (culprit lesion); angioplasty with simple balloon and cutting balloon was performed with resolution of the occlusion. A coronary angio-CT scan was performed 3 weeks apart, the first during the last admission, and after discharge home, showing an improvement in the intramural haematoma, with persistent intimal flap from the middle third of the anterior descending artery and thrombosis of the false lumen at the proximal anterior descending artery. On discharge, double antiplatelet therapy was maintained for 3 months until a subsequent review, and treatment was prescribed with statins, beta-blockers and nitrates.

DIAGNOSIS
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection in the left coronary tree due to intramural haematoma:

Acute myocardial infarction with anterior ST elevation. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection with occlusion of distal anterior descending artery, recovery of TIMI 3 flow by low-pressure balloon angioplasty and coronary guidewire without stent implantation. 90 minutes of ischaemia.
Recurrence of acute myocardial infarction with lateral ST elevation. Successful primary balloon angioplasty in obtuse marginal-circumflex bifurcation.
Preserved biventricular ejection fraction.
Angio-CT without extracoronary arterial anomalies.
Prediabetes.
