HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION

Personal history
52-year-old patient with the following personal pathological history: smoker of 1⁄2 pack of cigarettes/day, dyslipidaemia under treatment with statins, no diabetes mellitus or arterial hypertension.  Current illness The patient consults for approximately 1-2 months for episodes of chest pain that usually appear at rest and at night, but sometimes appear after heavy physical exertion. He refers to the pain as oppressive, radiating to the left arm and jaw, with no accompanying vegetative cortex; the duration of the episodes is usually a maximum of 10-15 minutes and they subside spontaneously. In the last week he presented 4 episodes of chest pain and consulted his primary care physician, who referred him to Cardiology for assessment.

Physical examination
Vital signs: BP 130/70, HR 70 bpm, O2 saturation 97% on room air. Patient conscious and oriented, normal neurological examination. Pulmonary auscultation with preserved vesicular murmur. Auscultation of heart sounds normal, no murmurs or extratonos, no pericardial friction rub. Neck without jugular ingurgitation. Abdomen without pathological findings. Lower extremities without oedema or signs of thrombosis.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
Blood tests: glucose 120 mg/dl, urea 30 mg/dl, creatinine 0.85 mg/dl, sodium 142 mEq/l, potassium 4 mEq/l, chlorine 104 mEq/l. Leukocytes 7,500 with 60 % neutrophils, haemoglobin 13.2 g/dl, haematocrit 40 %, platelets 250,000. Baseline electrocardiogram (ECG): sinus rhythm at 80 bpm, little R wave growth in right precordial leads. No other repolarisation abnormalities. Chest X-ray: normal cardiac silhouette, no acute pleuroparenchymal findings. Transthoracic echocardiogram: left ventricle of normal dimensions, normal wall thickness. Preserved systolic function without segmental alterations of contractility. Normal diastolic pattern. Normal left atrium. Mild mitral insufficiency. Aortic root and aortic valve normal. Normal right chambers. No pericardial effusion. Coronary angiography: right radial access 5F. Cardiac catheterisation: right dominance. Left common trunk (LMCA) without lesions. Anterior descending artery (AD) without lesions. Bisector branch: slight proximal lesion. Circumflex artery (Cx) with slight mid-level lesion. Right coronary artery (RCA) with severe pseudostenosis due to coronary spasm at midlevel that improves completely after administration of intracoronary nitroglycerin. Diagnosis: epicardial coronary arteries without significant hagiographic lesions. Coronary vasospasm of the right coronary artery.


EVOLUTION
The patient was assessed in the outpatient cardiology department. At that time he was asymptomatic, the physical examination was normal and the ECG showed no changes in repolarisation. A baseline transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was performed, which was normal, with preserved global left ventricular function and no segmental asymmetries of contractility. Since the patient had cardiovascular risk factors (dyslipidaemia and smoking) and presented a typical clinical picture of exertional angina, it was decided to request coronary angiography to rule out coronary artery disease. At the time of cardiac catheterisation, the patient was asymptomatic and had no symptoms of angina. The ECG on arrival showed no changes with respect to the previous ones. Blood test parameters were normal. Cardiac catheterisation was performed via the right radial artery. First, LMCA was cannulated with evidence of slight lesions in the bisector branch and proximal Cx. Subsequently, the LMCA was cannulated without complications. After the first contrast injection, a pseudo lesion with the appearance of a severe plaque was detected at the level of the middle LMCA. At that time, the patient reported chest pain similar to the episodes described above and ST segment elevation in lead II of the monitoring. Initially it was thought that the patient had a fixed lesion over which there had been added vasospasm, so it was decided to administer intracoronary nitroglycerine, which progressively improved the angina and the repolarisation alterations on the monitor. After a new contrast injection, complete resolution of the previously observed lesion was observed.
In view of the typical angina symptoms and the coronary angiographic findings, the case was labelled as vasospastic angina with severe vasospasm during cardiac catheterisation. Medical treatment with calcium antagonists and long-acting oral nitrates was started, with excellent clinical evolution during follow-up.

DIAGNOSIS
Vasospastic angina. Right coronary artery spasm triggered by catheter manipulation.
