HISTORY, CURRENT ILLNESS AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION
Male, 38 years old, from Morocco. No drug allergies. No medical or surgical history of interest. No toxic habits. No treatment at present. Active baseline life. Works in the countryside. He has been living in Spain for 7 years. The patient comes to the Cardiology Department with very unspecific symptoms. He reported a sensation of "noises in the heart" that appeared at rest. He denies dyspnoea on exertion. He also had no history of chest pain or syncope. Physical examination showed BP 125/ 60 mmHg, HR 90 bpm, good general condition, afebrile, eupneic at rest with baseline O2 saturation 98%. Cardiac auscultation with rhythmic heart sounds, reinforcement of the first sound, mitral opening click and audible diastolic rumble in the apex. Pulmonary auscultation: preserved vesicular murmur without rales. Abdomen: soft and depressible, not painful on palpation, no masses or organomegaly. Lower limbs: symmetrical paedial pulses present. No oedema.

COMPLEMENTARY TESTS
ECG: sinus rhythm at 62 bpm, PR 0.19 sec, nicked P wave in II, III and aVF and in left precordial leads, non-pathological q wave in aVL, normal ventriculogram. Blood tests: glucose 90 mg/dl. Urea 25 mg/dl. Creatinine 0.88 mg/dl. GOT 23.0. GPT 13.0 g/dl. Total cholesterol 126 mg/dl. Triglycerides 57 mg/dl. HDL cholesterol 45 mg/dl. LDL cholesterol 70 mg/dl. Haemoglobin 16,0 g/dl. Haematocrit 48,3 %. MCV 87.8 fl. Platelets 194.0 10e3/uL. Leukocytes 7.96 10e3/uL; TSH 1.55 IU/ml. Chest X-ray: slightly increased cardiothoracic index. Left atrial enlargement. Slight vascular redistribution. Free costophrenic sinuses. No infiltrates or condensation. Echocardiography: severely dilated left atrium (34 cm2). Normal right atrium. Normal aortic root, ascending aorta and arch. Rheumatic mitral valve with stenosis morphology and low score for valvuloplasty (4, without commissural calcium). Aortic sigmoid aortic valve trivalves, thickened, rheumatic, with slightly reduced opening. Left ventricle slightly dilated (59 mm, 144 ml), normal thickness. Preserved global and segmental LVSF (EF 65%). Normal right ventricle. AIS intact. Pericardium and cava system normal. Doppler: severe mitral stenosis AVE 0.85 cm2 by THP, by planimetry 1.1 cm2, mean gradient 12-14 mmHg). Trivial mitral insufficiency. Mild aortic stenosis (peak gradient 21 mmHg). Aortic insufficiency II/IV (central jet not crossing papillary muscle plane, no diastolic reversal in descending thoracic or abdominal aorta). Trivial tricuspid regurgitation allowing estimation of mild PH (42 mmHg).

EVOLUTION
This is a patient with rheumatic valve disease (mainly severe mitral stenosis) with minimal PH. However, he presents with dubious symptoms or symptoms discordant with the severity of MS. Given the characteristics of the valve disease, percutaneous mitral commissurotomy (PMC) would be indicated (valve area 0.85 cm2, favourable anatomical characteristics, ultrasound score < 8, absence of significant calcification or other valve diseases of greater than mild degree). Age is also a factor in favour of PMC, thus postponing valve replacement surgery. We decided to request an exercise ultrasound to evaluate changes in the mitral gradient and pulmonary pressures, which was positive due to the appearance of clinical symptoms and an increase in the mean transmitral gradient to 20 mmHg and pulmonary pressure >60 mmHg. With these results, the case was presented at a medical-surgical session and was accepted for percutaneous mitral commissurotomy. The commissurotomy was performed using an Inoue balloon. By transseptal puncture, the guide wire was advanced from the right atrium to the left ventricle, crossing the mitral valve. The balloon is progressively inflated from distal to proximal, thus adopting an hourglass shape that will serve to anchor the balloon to the valve upon removal. The procedure proceeds without immediate complications. Postoperative echocardiography shows an optimal result with mitral valve area > 1.5 cm2, with no increase in mitral regurgitation. The patient evolved favourably during hospitalisation and was discharged pending review in the outpatient cardiology department to assess progress and tolerance to effort.

DIAGNOSIS
Rheumatic polyvalvulopathy: severe mitral stenosis, mild double aortic lesion. Preserved left ventricular systolic function. mild pulmonary hypertension at rest, severe on exertion.
